CHAPTER TEN
It took a good week before Ma could see properly from her swollen
eye. Even then she refused to leave the house. Shopping then became
another chore I added to my list. So now, besides the long pants of
adulthood, I was expected to wear a dress as well.
Ma made a joke about it, her face I mean – something about not
wanting to scare the neighbours’ kids. But I knew there was more to it
than that. She was a single woman now and once the rumours had
threaded their way through the streets of Richmond, they would have
ended up so twisted they’d be saying that it was Ma who brought it on
herself.
So instead she lay low and waited for the scars to heal. At first, the
bruising seemed to be the worst of it. The skin around her bloodshot
eye started off black and blue, like you’d expect. Then, as the days
passed, all sorts of colours appeared. Up close you could see every
colour of the rainbow. There were greens, reds, purples, and yellows.
In the mornings, Ma stood in front of her bedroom mirror and
dabbed white powder over her bruises. Every morning was the same.
When she ventured out to the kitchen it was my job to provide her
with a daily update on her appearance.
‘Well?’ she’d ask.
‘Good as new, Ma,’ I’d reply. ‘Ya’ll be out dancin’ soon.’
In all honesty, I was surprised to see how well the powder softened
her face but it was not the bruises that concerned me most. The
bruises, after all, would heal. It was something else – something that
no amount of white powder could fix.
Ma had lost her smile.
We never talked about that night, Ma and I, not once. Whenever I
tried to discuss it, she’d scurry off to another room as if she’d
suddenly remembered an urgent chore that needed her attention. One
time, I found her in the living room, dusting the doorknob with a rag.
In her other hand was a metal ladle.
‘What are ya doin’, Ma?’ I asked.
‘I’m dustin’, Charlie,’ she replied. ‘What does it look like I’m doin’?’
‘Dustin’? What are ya doin’ with a ladle, then?’
‘Oh that…’
Slowly Ma raised the ladle above her head and let her eyes wander
across the floor.
‘It’s these blasted cockroaches,’ she said. ‘I just seen one, scootin’
across the floor. As big as a tomcat, ’e was.’
I took hold of her arm and held it tight.
‘Why don’t ya sit fer a while, Ma?’ I said. ‘The ’ouse is spotless.’
‘Leave me be, Charlie. The place is a pigsty. What if someone comes
visitin’?’
‘Visitin’? That’s a laugh. Why would anyone want ta come visitin’?
Yer won’t see anyone no more and yer forever cleanin’. People want
ta help, Ma. Why don’t ya let ’em?’
She never looked at me any more when she spoke. Instead, she
chatted to the walls.
‘Ma?’ I pleaded.
I tugged at her arm and forced her to look at me. When she turned
her head I noticed the sickly white colour in her face. Immediately I
thought it was the Spanish Flu that had a hold of her but then I
realised what it was. She’d begun covering not only the bruises, but
her entire face with powder.
‘What are ya doin’ ta yerself, Ma?’ I pleaded. ‘It’s been weeks now.
There’s powder all over yer face. There’s no need fer it no more, the
bruisin’s cleared.’
Slowly her vacant eyes left me and returned to the doorknob.
‘Leave me be, Charlie. Just leave me be.’
That’s the way it was. In the mornings she covered her face with
powder and she swept and she cleaned, room after room. Then, when
she’d run out of rooms, she’d start all over again.
Apart from my work with Squizzy, I dared not venture too far from
the house, especially at night. Whenever I needed company, I found
myself visiting the Redmonds next door. At least they were willing to
talk.
‘Yer the man a the ’ouse now, Charlie,’ Mrs Redmond said one
night. ‘I know it’s a lot ta ask a someone so young, but yer ma’ll be
needin’ ya ta be strong, what with ’er… condition an’ all.’
Her condition.