Although I was glad of the company, I hated the way Mrs Redmond
called it that. But it was more than just the word itself I objected to. It
was the way she said it – the way she paused beforehand and looked
around the room as if there was something sinister about Ma’s
behaviour.
When Mrs Redmond talked like that I found myself almost wishing
the bruises back. At least then I could see what was wrong. But this
‘condition’ as she called it – I knew it was something in Ma’s head.
And it scared me.
Another thing that troubled me was the way Mrs Redmond always
referred to me as ‘the man of the house’. True, I had been wearing my
father’s boots for some months now. Wearing them was easy. All I had
to do was slide them on and lace them up. Any mug who knew the art
of tying laces could do that. But filling them, now that was a different
story altogether.
One night while the Redmonds were fixing a cup of tea in their
kitchen, Mr Redmond returned to the living room and caught me
standing in front of the mirror with my shirtsleeves rolled up,
checking myself for muscles.
‘So?’ he asked. ‘What’s the verdict?’
‘I’m only sixteen, Mr Redmond,’ I answered. ‘I don’t think I’m ready
ta be the man a the ’ouse, just yet.’
‘Ya ’aven’t done a bad job of it so far, Charlie. Personally, I’d think
twice before messin’ with ya, after what I seen the other night.’
‘That were a lucky shot, I reckon. Anyway I’d look a bit of a dill
walkin’ around the place with a cricket bat tucked under me arm.’
‘Listen, ’ave ya ever thought ’bout boxin’, Charlie?’
‘Boxin’?’
‘Yeah. I did a bit meself when I were yer age. I could train ya if ya
want.’
‘Could ya?’
‘Don’t see why not. Ya got the runnin’ in yer legs already. We could
start tomorra night, if ya like?’
Next day as I ran an errand down Little Lonsdale Street I heard a
voice inside my head.
‘Ladies and gentlemen,’ it said. ‘May I present… the middleweight
champion of the world… Mr Charlie Feehan.’
I pulled up in front of a tailor’s shop and just for fun I gave the
mannequin outside a quick one-two combination.
Left, right. Bang, bang.
Stunned, the mannequin failed to respond. Already I could sense he
was in trouble so I moved quickly to the left, dropped my shoulder
and hammered my right fist up into his ribcage. It was a Charlie
Feehan special, poor bugger.
Just as I was about to finish him off, something made contact with
my left ear. I turned and saw an angry shopkeeper standing in front of
me with her hands on her hips.
‘Ouch,’ I cried. ‘That bloody well ’urt, missus.’ ‘Good. And I’ll give
ya another one if ya don’t leave off.’
For a moment I thought about telling her that future middleweight
champions deserved more respect but something in her face warned
me against it. Instead I continued up Little Lonsdale with a ringing
noise in my ear.
That night I wolfed down my mutton flaps and potato then scurried
next door for my first training session with Mr Redmond.
He’d been busy.
The first thing I noticed was the punching bag hanging from the
back verandah. Seeing it, I raced over and started laying into it with
my fists.
After a few seconds, Mr Redmond grabbed hold of my arm.
‘Easy does it, champ,’ he said. ‘Yer not ready fer the bag.’
‘Where’d ya get it?’ I asked.
‘It’s Bert O’Meara’s kit bag from the war. He’s got no use fer it no
more. He’s full a mustard gas, poor bugger. I’ve filled it full a sand.’
I nodded respectfully, remembering the time Bert had called in to
our house to share a beer with my father just before he left for the
battlefields of France. He was a giant of a man, thickset like a draught
horse. My father often joked that Bert O’Meara was the only man at
Victoria Dock who could unload an entire ship’s cargo with his bare
hands before the lunch bell sounded. But now, that same man was a
mere skeleton, and like my father, he too would suffer the indignity of
dying in bed, between piss-stained sheets.