I looked at Bert’s bag, still swinging from the verandah.
‘What d’ya mean, I’m not ready fer the bag? I’m ’ere fer the boxin’,
Mr Redmond… remember?’
‘First thing ya gotta learn, Charlie, there’s more ta boxin’ than
punchin’.’
‘There is?’ I asked. ‘Like what?’
‘Like the two eff’s… Finkin’ and footwork. It’s all up ’ere,’ he said,
pointing to his head. ‘Ya’ll not be punchin’ the bag till yer ready.’
With that, he handed me a training list.
I had no problem with the first entry. It said running. Even the next
two, push-ups and sit-ups, seemed sensible enough. It was the fourth
entry I had trouble with.
‘Skippin’?’ I asked in disbelief. ‘Crikey, Mr Redmond, next ya’ll be
tellin’ me there’s knittin’ involved.’
Mr Redmond smiled then made his way to a wooden chest on the
verandah.
‘There’s no knittin’, is there, Mr Redmond?’
From the wooden chest Mr Redmond pulled out a skipping rope and
tossed it to me.
‘No, Charlie, there’s no knittin’. But there could be a spot a sewin’
needed if I ’ear any more whingein’ outta ya. Here, see what ya can
do with this.’
I untangled the rope and found two large knots at either end. All
over Richmond, the streets and schoolyards were full of girls skipping,
but in all my years I’d never had the need to pay much attention to
the technicalities of jumping rope. As I moved to the centre of the
yard, Mrs Redmond appeared on the back verandah.
‘What fun,’ she said. ‘I ’aven’t done any skippin’ since I were a girl.
How ’bout I count ya in, Charlie?’
With the rope resting behind my heels I was ready to begin. I
looked up at Mrs Redmond who’d taken a seat on the wooden chest.
‘Ya ready?’ she asked.
I nodded.
‘A one, and a two, and a one, two, three.’
I was away.
Surprisingly, I managed to jump the first four in a row and perhaps
it would have been more had Mrs Redmond not started singing.
‘Pat a cake, pat a cake,
Baker’s man,
Bake me a cake as fast as you can.’
On the fourth jump when the rope hit the back of my boots, I
stopped and gathered the rope in one hand. It was time to make a
stand.
‘Why’ve ya stopped, Charlie?’ asked Mr Redmond.
I held my ground in the middle of the yard and waved Mr Redmond
over.
‘Listen, I’m not whingein’ or nothin’,’ I whispered. ‘But it’s Mrs
Redmond. She’s puttin’ me off. Do we ’ave ta ’ave nursery rhymes
while I’m skippin’?’
With his hand on his chin, Mr Redmond glanced over his shoulder
towards the verandah.
‘I’m afraid so, Charlie. Unless ya want ta start yer sparrin’ practice
early. Mrs Redmond’s a bit sensitive about her singin’. I suggest ya try
and think about somethin’ else.’
As I stepped back into position, I tried to follow Mr Redmond’s
advice but all I could think about was Les Darcy, Australia’s champion
middleweight boxer. I bet he never had nursery rhymes.
On my next attempt I jumped five, then six then eight. I was getting
better by the minute and although I hated to admit it, I found Mrs
Redmond’s nursery rhymes actually helping me with my rhythm. That
night I left the Redmond’s with a record fifteen jumps in a row. Soon
I’d be ready for the bag.