CHAPTER ELEVEN
Nostrils was impressed. About the boxing, I mean. When I met him on
Saturday morning I told him all about the training.
‘So yer ’ittin’ the bag?’ he asked.
‘Course I’m ’ittin’ the bag,’ I lied. ‘It’s boxin’. What did ya think I’d
be doin’, dancin’?’
‘Maybe I could join ya? It’d ’elp me with me footy. I’m playin’ this
arvo. They’ve picked me on the forward flank.’
Suddenly, a familiar song sounded in my head.
Pat a cake, pat a cake,
Baker’s man…
‘Er… I’ll ask Mr Redmond fer ya Nostrils, but I’m pretty sure he’s
not after takin’ on any others. Besides, it ain’t as simple as kickin’ a
footy ’round an oval. Ya should see some a the things he’s got me
doin’. There’s no muckin’ ’bout, ya know. What I’m doin’ is a science.’
Soon the two of us arrived at Stone’s Timber Yard. It was the first
time since the beating that I’d had the courage to resume the wood
run and I don’t mind admitting that the thought of seeing Mr Peacock
again had me feeling as edgy as a stray chook on Christmas Day. Still,
at least I had Nostrils with me.
I stopped at the gate and took a couple of deep breaths.
‘Ya awright, Charlie? asked Nostrils. ‘Ya don’t look so good.’
‘Yeah, I’m awright,’ I answered. ‘I’m just ’opin’ that Squizzy’s sorted
things.’
Grabbing hold of the trolley’s handle, I held my head high and
strode through the front gate. As we passed the foreman’s hut on our
left, the door slammed shut.
I couldn’t look.
‘That Peacock fella,’ said Nostrils. ‘What’s ’e done ta ’imself? He’s
got a bandage ’round ’is ’ead.’
Normally I had no trouble coming clean where Nostrils was
concerned. He was my best friend, now, after all. But here, my hands
were tied.
‘Dunno,’ I lied. ‘Maybe someone’s clocked ’im one. About time I
reckon. Come on, Nostrils, ’ow ’bout we load up and get outta ’ere.’
We loaded up, all right – two trolleys full. While Mr Peacock sat
stewing in his grotty little hut, Nostrils and I helped ourselves to the
wood stack. You cannot imagine the pleasure it gave me, hurling log
after log into the trolleys. They were big logs, too, none of the
splinters like before. And then, when our trolleys could not take any
more I picked up a twig and drew a message in the dirt.
UP YOURS PEACOCK.
That afternoon when I arrived at the Heaths’ I found Nostrils
nuggeting his footy boots. Compared to his father, Nostrils seemed
fairly relaxed.
‘Thank God yer ’ere, Charlie,’ said Mr Heath as I entered the living
room. ‘Pull up a seat. I’m just runnin’ through some last minute
instructions with Norman ’ere. But fer the life a me, I’m sure there’s
somethin’ I’ve forgotten. D’ya ’ave any words a wisdom of yer own?’
Pat a cake, pat a cake,
Baker’s man…
There was that blasted song again.
‘Um…’ave ya told ’im about the two effs at all?’ I asked.
Mr Heath slapped his knee.
‘Of course!’ he said. ‘The two effs. I knew there were somethin’.’
As I looked around the room for sponge cake, I felt a hand on my
forearm. Beside me, Mr Heath looked confused.
‘Er, I’m familiar with it meself a course, Charlie, but I might get ya
ta explain it ta Norman ’ere. What exactly are the two effs?’
‘The two effs,’ I said casually. ‘Finkin’ and footwork.’
During my brief explanation, I couldn’t help feeling that Nostrils
and his father were having difficulty fully grasping the ins and outs of
the two effs. I shouldn’t have been surprised, I suppose. After all, the
stuff I was telling them was highly technical in its nature – stuff that
was difficult to digest for those without a bit of boxing know-how like
myself.
Still, a little more enthusiasm would have been nice.
When I was done, Mr Heath looked none the wiser.
‘Ya’d better make that three effs, Charlie,’ he scoffed. ‘That were the
biggest load a frogshit I ever ’eard. Ignore ’im, Norman. When ya get
yer ’ands on the ball, kick the bloody thing long.’
When the four of us arrived at the oval opposite the Punt Road
ground, a large crowd was already gathered. For the people of
Richmond, footy at any level was worth getting excited about,
especially when one of the teams was wearing black and yellow.
There was an icy southerly howling across the oval, left to right,
and as usual it was Mr Heath doing most of the talking.
‘I’ve got another eff ta add ta yer list, Charlie,’ he smirked. ‘It’s
bloody freezin’.’