Ever since we’d left Nostrils’ place, Mr Heath was throwing effs at
me thick and fast. By now the two effs had swelled to eight.
‘Ya’d better steady on, Mr Heath,’ I countered. ‘I’ll be runnin’ outta
fingers before long.’
Soon enough it was time for Nostrils to join the rest of his team
mates in the change rooms.
‘Awright then,’ he smiled. ‘I’d best be off. I’ll see yis after the game.’
Mrs Heath, who’d been unusually quiet, gave her son a quick hug.
‘Ya’ll be right, love,’ she whispered.
Next in line was Mr Heath. He grabbed hold of Norman’s hand and
shook it firmly.
‘There’s a breeze blowin’, Norman,’ he said. ‘Make sure yer thinkin’
’bout the breeze when yer linin’ up the sticks.’
I was next. I slid my hand into Nostrils’ and tried to think of
something clever to say. Nothing came. All I could remember was that
day in the park.
‘Yer Vic Thorp, remember. Yer a freak.’
With his bag tucked under his arm, Nostrils made his way to the
rooms and for the first time I noticed something about him. There was
a gracefulness in his stride. Even when some rowdy punter blocked
his path, Nostrils simply shifted his weight and danced around him.
Class.
That was what they called it. And Nostrils had it in spades.
Beside me Mr Heath leaned my way and spoke.
‘Freak, ya said. If I’m not mistaken, that’d make it nine.’
The team from Fitzroy came out first and as they ran onto the oval I
remembered why it was I’d never taken to footy. Except for a couple
of smaller roving types, most of them were giants – more like grown
men than boys. I tell you, it wouldn’t have surprised me none if some
of them had a wife and kids waiting for them at home.
Not far to my right, a group of supporters started making some
noise and as I looked their way a flash of red in the middle of the
crowd caught my eye. I rested my hand on Mr Heath’s shoulder and
lifted myself onto my toes for a better look.
‘’Em’s the opposition supporters, Charlie,’ he said. ‘Why don’t ya
concentrate on somethin’ else?’
There it was again. A mop of dazzling red hair. I lifted myself even
higher and discovered that the owner of those flaming locks was a girl
of similar age to myself.
‘Carn the Roys!’ she screamed.
If Mr Heath hadn’t brushed my hand from his shoulder, I may well
have missed Nostrils running out.
‘Get yer hands off me, Charlie,’ he snapped. ‘The lads are on their
way out.’
Richmond Hill came out single file and like the Fitzroy team, they
too were big. I spotted Nostrils in the middle of the line wearing
number twelve on his back. I wasn’t normally the vocal type but
seeing Nostrils in the yellow and black got me excited.
‘Eat ’em alive, Tigers!’ I roared.
After a series of warm-ups, the players moved into position and by
sheer good fortune I noticed Nostrils striding to the flank in front of
us.
He looked sharp.
‘’Atta boy, Nostrils,’ I bellowed.
This time it was Mrs Heath who found my ear.
‘If ya don’t mind, Charlie,’ she said. ‘I’d prefer it if ya called ’im
Norman. It’s more professional.’
As I saw it, I had a few spare minutes up my sleeve before the ball
was bounced so I went about locating the girl with the fiery hair. I’d
just spotted her when Mr Heath started chewing my other ear.
‘He don’t look that tough,’ he said.
Without turning I grunted a reply.
‘Huh?’
Again his hand found my shoulder.
‘Will ya bloody well stop pervin’ at the opposition and concentrate
on the game, Charlie.’
Reluctantly I dragged my eyes from the girl and faced him.
‘Sorry, Mr Heath. What was it ya were sayin’?’
‘Norman’s opponent,’ he pointed. ‘He don’t look so tough ta me.
What d’ya think?’
I don’t know why I did it, after all, I was a good forty feet from the
flank, but when I saw Nostrils’ opponent I ducked for cover behind
Mrs Heath.
‘Bloody ’ell, it’s Jimmy Barlow.’
‘Ya know ’im?’