‘I’m afraid I do, Mr Heath. He’s as tough as nails.’
Suddenly a whistle sounded and while those around me looked to
the centre square, I kept my eyes on the flank. Seconds into the game,
Barlow made his intentions clear. Just as the Tigers went into attack,
he lifted his elbow high across his body then brought it down hard
into Nostrils’ stomach.
He was going the knuckle.
With the wind taken out of him, Nostrils dropped onto one knee
and began gasping for air.
‘What the flamin’ ’eck’s he doin’?’ said Mr Heath. ‘He’s picked a
bloody fine time ta get religious. Couldn’t he ’ave done his prayin’
before the game?’
All through the first half, Barlow had Nostrils off his game.
Whenever the black and yellow came forward, Nostrils would try and
match his opponent with strength. And, whilst his refusal to take a
backward step was admirable, he seemed to be losing sight of what
was most important – possession.
When the half-time whistle sounded, Fitzroy were up by sixteen
points. Mr Heath looked tense.
‘I’ll be back in a jiff,’ he said. ‘There’s somethin’ I gotta tell
Norman.’
Crashing through the crowd, Mr Heath caught up with his son and
slung an arm around his shoulder. It was a simple thing, something
that my own father had done with me. But now, as I stood there
watching them in the crowd, I felt a sharp pang of grief. Never again,
I realised, would I experience my father’s touch.
Soon enough, the players emerged for the second half and once
again Nostrils made his way over to Barlow on the flank. As soon as
they came together, Barlow was into him, bumping chests and pulling
on his jumper. But unlike the first half, Nostrils simply pushed him
aside and kept his eyes fixed on the action in the centre square.
When the ball was bounced, Richmond’s ruckman palmed off a
perfect tap to the waiting rover who kicked it forward. Quickly I
looked to the flank and saw Nostrils drop his shoulder into Barlow,
sending him sideways. With his opponent off balance, Nostrils
charged after the ball and gathered it up with one hand. Speeding
towards the goal he took a bounce. Then another.
‘’Atta boy, Norman,’ screamed Mr Heath. ‘’Ave a shot, son.’
Oozing class, Nostrils slowed up then dropped the ball onto his
right boot. At first it looked as though he’d aimed it too far left but as
it sailed into the air the breeze got hold of it and pushed it right,
straight through the big sticks.
Goal!
Before I knew what was happening I was dancing a jig with Mr and
Mrs Heath, right there in the middle of the crowd.
‘I dunno what ya told ’im, Mr Heath,’ I said, ‘but it sure seems to
’ave worked.’
‘I ’ope ya don’t mind, Charlie, but I borrowed one a yer effs.’
‘Ya did?’
‘Yeah.’ he smiled. ‘I told ’im to start finkin’ smart.’
All through the second half, Nostrils took Barlow apart. Whenever the
ball entered Richmond’s forward line, Nostrils was there. He
outplayed him, not with muscle, but with speed and skill. One on one,
when it came to getting the footy, Barlow was no match. He simply
couldn’t keep up.
When the whistle sounded to signal the end of the game, Richmond
Hill, thanks largely to Nostrils’ devastating second half, had won by
twenty-two points.
As the players left the field, I decided it was time to get a closer
look at the girl with the red hair. While Mr and Mrs Heath took off to
congratulate their son, I hung back and mingled with the opposition.
Next to me a girl in a grey coat cupped a hand around her mouth.
‘Hey, Alice,’ she called. ‘Let’s get goin’.’
Slowly the red-haired girl turned and began walking my way. Soon
she was next to me, close enough to touch and for a second I thought
about saying something. I even opened my mouth. But, as usual,
nothing came.
Seeing her up close, however, I realised that her hair was only the
half of it. She was beautiful. Her cheeks were soft and shiny pink and
her delicate nose was dotted with freckles, so perfect it was as if
someone had gathered them up between thumb and forefinger and
sprinkled them gently across her face.
Alice.
She was past me now. Gone. And, even though I’d been unable to
make an impression, I caught myself smiling.
For the moment, at least, I had everything I needed.
I had her name.