CHAPTER TWELVE
When I woke on Monday morning, there was a freckle-faced girl with
wild hair on my wall. Smiling, I rolled onto my back and began filling
my head with her.
I took myself back to Saturday’s game and replayed that final
moment with Alice, only this time as she walked towards me she
smiled and touched my arm. I was all set to say something when a
noise from the kitchen killed the moment.
Ma was up.
Halfway along the hall I stopped at the living room door and found
her on her hands and knees, running the tip of a knife along a join in
the floorboards.
‘What are ya doin’, Ma?’ I asked.
‘Ya’d never believe ’ow much dirt gets into these ’ere cracks,’ she
said, without looking up. ‘I’ll ’ave a few trolley loads fer ya, before I’m
done.’
I stood there in the doorway a while and watched my Ma grovelling
on her hands and knees, tut-tutting every time she dislodged a
sizeable clump of dirt. When she was like this, with her mind on the
cleaning, nothing I could say would make her stop. Part of me wanted
to hurl myself onto the floor and snatch the knife away but I knew
that as soon as I was gone she’d have found herself a new one.
As the weeks passed, Ma’s ‘condition’ seemed to get worse. Unlike
before, she hardly raised an eyebrow when I returned from the timber
yard with my trolley full of logs, and when I handed her the doctored
report card from Mrs Nagle, she looked at it as if it were a shopping
list. But it was Jack I worried about the most. If it wasn’t for Mrs
Redmond, I tell you, I don’t know how we would have managed.
That morning I found him in the corner of the kitchen, asleep in his
bassinet. I hadn’t time to fix myself breakfast, so I walked over to say
goodbye. As I bent down to kiss his cheek, I saw a cockroach at the
corner of his mouth, feeding on a patch of crusty milk.
Without thinking I reached in and snatched it up. In my haste to
remove the roach, my fingernails tore some skin from his cheek. As I
squashed the roach between my fingers, Jack opened his eyes and
began to howl.
When I arrived at Squizzy’s place that morning, Dolly met me at the
door.
‘He’s in a foul mood this mornin’, Charlie,’ she whispered, craning
her head towards the office inside. ‘Ya’d better ’ave yer wits ’bout ya.
Somethin’s gone wrong.’
She was right. Only two steps into the hallway, Squizzy blew his
top.
‘Who the bloody ’ell does ’e think ’e is?’ he roared. ‘If it’s a scrap ’e’s
wantin’, I’ll give it to ’im, awright. I’ll fill the weasel full a holes.’
The next voice I heard was Dasher’s.
‘Calm yerself down, Squiz. It’s only rumours I’m passin’ on. Why
don’t ya pour yerself a whisky? It might help settle yer nerves.’
‘Good thinkin’, Dash… Dolly! Get off yer arse and fetch us two
whiskys. Make ’em doubles. And while yer at it, ya can fix us a
sandwich, as well.’
While Dolly delivered the whiskys, I crept towards the living-room
door and pressed my ear hard against it.
‘I tell ya, Dash, if Snowy Cutmore’s after mixin’ it with me, he’s in
fer one ’ell of a stoush. I’ll take on the whole a Fitzroy if I ’ave ta.’
‘Look, Squiz,’ said Dasher. ‘Before ya do anythin’ rash, ’ow about we
send someone in ta see what they’re up ta? Ya might be over-reactin’.’
‘Me? Over-reactin’? They’re bad-mouthin’ me, all over town. I won’t
’ave it. I’ve a reputation ta consider.’
‘It’s just what I ’eard, Squiz. They’re sayin’ ya short changed ’em
with the takin’s from the jewellery job in Kew.’
‘Too bloody right I did. It was me and Matt Daly what did the joint
over. I only let Cutmore shift the stuff ta get ’im off me back. Sniffin’
around like a shit’ouse rat, ’e was.’
‘I’m afraid there’s more,’ said Dasher.
‘Strike me pink, ya full a good news, ya are. C’mon then, let’s ’ear
it.’
‘Cutmore’s been seen drinkin’ with Micky Morgan.’
‘And?’
‘Micky Morgan, Squiz. Ya wanna think careful before ya go startin’
somethin’. Morgan’s as mad as a cut snake.’
‘I’ll not be bendin’ over fer no one, Dash. If the two of ’em wanna
play handies, let ’em. That Fitzroy push are a pack a sheilas. Always
’ave been.’