A pause in the conversation told me that Dolly had arrived with the
sandwiches so I stepped away from the door and thought about what
I’d just heard.
Snowy Cutmore was well known as a man with a violent streak.
Rumour had it that one night, in the company of a young lass and
with a skin full of liquor under his belt, he took to her rump with a
branding iron after she steadfastly refused his advances. Blue-eyed
and blond-haired, he was one of the kingpins of the Fitzroy push – an
unpredictable man with a liking for a scrap. Put simply, messing with
Snowy Cutmore was bad for your health.
Then there was Morgan, known around the traps as ‘Tramlines’ on
account of the two scars down his left cheek. Morgan was Fitzroy’s
equivalent of Henry Stokes. He ran his two-up schools with such a
tight fist that it wasn’t uncommon for punters in Fitzroy to make their
way to Richmond, to Goodwood Street in particular, where the
atmosphere was more relaxed.
Though many had tried, no one yet had gone up against Cutmore
and won. And now with Tramlines standing beside him, victory
seemed near impossible. Don’t get me wrong – despite his size,
Squizzy Taylor was no push-over himself, but as I stood there in his
living room, something told me that this time Squizzy Taylor was
fighting outside his weight.
As soon as I’d changed into my new black boots, Squizzy summoned
me, none too politely.
‘Where’s that flamin’ runner?’ he bellowed from his office. ‘Charlie!
Get yerself in ’ere.’
Stepping into the office, I found Squizzy pacing the room with a
whisky glass in his hand. From the look of him, he hadn’t slept.
‘Sorry, Mr Taylor,’ I said. ‘I thought ya was in a meetin’.’
‘Flamin’ ’ell lad, I’m not payin’ ya ta be thinkin’.’
Standing at the desk, he ran his fingers through his hair and with
his free hand shuffled through some papers.
‘And I’m not payin’ ya ta be sittin’ ’round on yer arse, either. Yer as
bad as Dolly. The two a ya are wearin’ ’oles in the furniture. Struth,
the guests’ll be fallin’ through the chairs before long.’
He was frantic now, pushing papers across the desk.
‘Where the flamin’ ’ell did I put that list?’ he roared. ‘It was sittin’
right ’ere when I turned me back. Dasher, if yer playin’ funny buggers
with me, I’ll ’ave yer.’
Finally he spotted what he was looking for on the left-hand corner
of his desk.
‘Awright, Charlie, now listen up. I’ve written down on this paper,
’ere, a list a people what owe me money. Next ta the address is the
amount owin’. Normally I’d be goin’ to collect it meself but I’ve other
things on me mind right now and I want the boys ready if any trouble
starts.’
I nodded.
‘It’s quite straightforward. Yer ta visit each of these addresses and
tell ’em that yer’ve come ta collect Mr Taylor’s money. Got it?’
I nodded again.
‘If any of ’em start messin’ ya round, yer ta tell ’em from me that if I
’ave ta come down in person, I won’t be callin’ in fer tea and biscuits.’
With that, Squizzy handed me the list. There were six names in
total, each of them accompanied by an address. Quickly I ran through
them in my head then stopped at the last entry.
‘Somethin’ wrong?’ asked Squizzy.
‘There seems ta be some mistake with the last entry, Mr Taylor,’ I
replied nervously. ‘It says ’ere it’s in Fitzroy.’
‘There’s no mistake, Charlie.’
‘So yer wantin’ me ta go inta Fitzroy?’
Beside me Dasher drained the contents of his whisky glass then sat
up in his chair.
‘Don’t worry, Charlie,’ he grimaced. ‘No one knows ya in Fitzroy.
It’s better that you be goin’ than one a us.’