Collecting Squizzy Taylor’s outstanding debts was a dangerous
occupation in itself, especially for a lad of sixteen years. But in a
suburb like Fitzroy, where a large number of his enemies resided,
Squizzy Taylor was now about as popular as a dose of the Spanish flu.
With the instructions clear in my head, I headed down the hall and
out the front door. Already I’d decided to leave the Fitzroy address
until last, so I tucked the list into a pocket and began running at any
easy pace towards the city.
Although I was mindful of the miles I had to cover, today I felt
strong. By the time I’d reached Punt Road my legs had settled into a
comfortable rhythm, leaving me free to think about the day ahead.
The collecting of debts was usually a two-man job and in Squizzy’s
push those two men were Billy Tobin and Knuckles Lonergan. Billy,
although slight of build, was a man with a razor-sharp tongue. He was
the front-man, the spruiker, and seldom failed to persuade a
shopkeeper to hand over whatever amount was owing. But if for some
reason the shopkeeper refused, Knuckles, all six foot four of him,
would step in with the muscle.
Today, however, I was on my own. I had none of Billy’s persuasive
talents. In fact I couldn’t guarantee that my own tongue would be
working at all, what with its habit of taking unauthorised naps.
And muscle?
There was the odd bump here and there but you’d be stretching the
truth to be calling them muscles. So, unless a shopkeeper called on me
for a dodgy display of skipping, I had no idea how to tackle the job.
Finally, as I headed up Spring Street, I settled on a plan.
Polite but firm.
It wasn’t much, but it was all I had.
At the Eastern Market in Bourke Street, I slowed to a walk and
unfolded the list in my pocket.
The first entry said, Albert Fox – Greengrocer, 111 Bourke Street, £3.
I stepped nervously through the main entrance past the tattooist
and the shooting gallery and made my way to the lower quadrangle
where I knew the grocer to be. Nearing the stall, I spotted a man
outside arranging some apples into neat rows. Albert Fox was much
younger than I’d imagined. I’d been hoping for someone older first up,
someone who’d give up the money as soon as I asked. And this Albert
Fox, he was big.
I stood with my eyes closed for a few moments and took a couple of
deep breaths.
‘Polite but firm,’ I said softly. ‘Polite but firm.’
Slowly I walked over until I was behind him.
‘Mr Albert Fox?’ I asked.
He answered without turning, keeping his eyes on the apples. ‘Who
wants ta know?’
‘I’ve come ta collect Mr Taylor’s money,’ I said.
Suddenly I had his attention and he began eyeing me suspiciously.
‘Is that so?’
‘It is, sir. And I’d be appreciatin’ it if ya could attend ta the matter
directly. I’ve a busy day ahead.’
Hooking his thumbs through his apron straps, Mr Fox broke into a
smile then raised his voice.
‘And what makes ya think I’d be willin’ ta fork over me ’ard-earned
ta a pipsqueak like you?’
‘I can think of one good reason, Mr Fox. If Mr Taylor has ta come
down ’ere with Knuckles in tow, they won’t be sittin’ down fer tea and
biscuits. I’ve just come from Mr Taylor’s place and I can tell ya, he’s
itchin’ ta do ’is block.’
In front of me Mr Fox put away his smile and unhooked his thumbs.
Polite but firm, it was working.
‘Awright, awright,’ he whined. ‘Keep yer flamin’ shirt on. I’ll go and
fetch it.’
As he retreated into the shop, a wave of bravado rose up in my
chest. I reached down and grabbed an apple then tossed it into the air.
When it landed in my right hand, I lifted it up to my mouth and took
a healthy bite.
Before long Mr Fox reappeared and joined me at the front of the
shop.
‘It’s a pleasure doin’ business with ya,’ I said, taking the envelope
from his outstretched hand. ‘And by the way… them apples… they’re
a bit on the green side.’