CHAPTER THIRTEEN
After my successful encounter with Albert Fox, I went about collecting
Squizzy’s money as if Knuckles himself was standing beside me. I
never once stopped to think about what I was doing – about the
people on the list. All that mattered was the money.
At each of the city addresses it was the same. When they first saw
me they resisted but once I’d mentioned the tea and biscuits all I had
to do was hold out my hand.
Now for Fitzroy.
With the money tucked safely in my pocket, I made it to the top end
of town and headed towards Brunswick Street. Although buoyed by
my early success, I was still clear-headed enough to know that things
in Fitzroy would be different.
My last stop, according to the list, was a cake shop in Johnston
Street under the name, Kenneth Cornwall.
From Brunswick Street I turned right into Johnston and kept
walking. On the opposite side of the street, some twenty yards away, I
spotted the shop. Next door, a group of three men were slouching in
front of a billiard hall, smoking.
In many ways, Fitzroy was a lot like Richmond. Its main streets
were abuzz with the sound of clunking trams and the clip-clop of
horses’ hooves. As a newcomer, seeing its shops and hotels for the first
time, you’d be fooled into thinking that here was a vibrant and
bustling suburb. But if you were to scratch beneath the surface and
stroll behind the rosy facade, you’d soon discover an underbelly of a
different sort. For the people that resided in the back streets and
narrows of Fitzroy, living was the easy part. It was surviving was the
trick.
In the fifteen minutes I’d been staking out the cake shop, the only
thing to have changed was my mood. The early cockiness I’d felt as I
ran around the city had all but disappeared and my chest, once full of
bravado, was now deflated to its original size.
I wasn’t close enough to see inside the shop so I settled my nerves
by telling myself that bakers, on the whole, weren’t known for having
a vicious streak. Bakers baked. They wore aprons and caps and had
smudges of flour on the tips of their noses.
I was stalling.
Two more cars, I told myself. After two more cars motored by, I’d
launch myself off the footpath and march straight into the shop.
Easy.
Not surprisingly, two cars became three. Three became four then six
then eight.
Finally, I mustered enough courage to make a move. I stepped into
the gutter and ambled across Johnston Street towards the shop.
Polite but firm.
I smiled at the men in front of the billiard hall and pushed quietly
through the cake shop door. In the glass cabinet in front of me, a girl
wearing a hat was bent low, adding some sticky sweets to the cake
display. She hadn’t seen me so I tapped on the glass near her head.
‘Afternoon,’ I said.
Startled, she raised herself up and hit her head on the shelf above
her. Crunch.
With her hand clutching her head, she emerged from the cabinet
and straightened up.
The first thing I saw was the freckles.
‘What are ya thinkin’, sneakin’ up on a girl like that?’ she said,
crossly.
I was stunned. I wasn’t ready to be meeting Alice so soon. I had
nothing prepared.
‘Er…’
‘Well?’
I could think of nothing interesting to say so I blurted out the first
thing that came to mind.
‘I’ve got the taste fer one a them cakes there,’ I said, pointing to my
right. ‘I’ll take that big fella at the back, if ya don’t mind.’
Alice seemed unimpressed. She rolled her eyes then tucked a loose
ringlet of red hair back underneath her hat.
Inside I was dying.
‘That’ll be threepence,’ she said, handing it to me.
I took it from her then dropped a couple of coins into her hand. I
had to redeem myself. I took a step back and bit into the creamy bun.
‘They’re not ’alf bad,’ I said. ‘What d’ya call ’em?’
‘Cream buns, Einstein.’