Standing there in the shop I realised that if I were to have any
chance with Alice, the next thing to leave my mouth would have to be
something special. Time had come to start finkin’ smart. I swallowed
the last of the bun and began to think about the women in my life.
There was Ma, Mrs Redmond and Dolly. It was by no means a lengthy
list but at the same time it occurred to me that all three women had
something in common. They were all attracted to men who could
make them laugh. Whilst there wasn’t a great deal to smile about
when you lived in the slums, laughing was one of the few things that
came for free.
At this stage in our relationship I was under no illusion as to where
I stood with Alice. She was giving me the cold shoulder something
shocking. Even if I’d started doing cartwheels across the shop floor I
doubt whether she would have payed me the slightest attention. I had
to make a move and I had to do it now.
Slowly I stepped forward and positioned myself at the end of the
counter. My plan, if you could call it that, was to start up a
conversation, then, when the moment presented itself I would catch
her off-guard with a witty remark.
Polite but firm was out. Funny was in.
Behind the counter Alice was busy stacking loaves so I coughed
gently into my hand to remind her I was still there. I was all ready to
start something when out of the corner of my eye I spotted a familiar
figure outside the shop window. It was Barlow. Quickly my survival
instincts cut in and I dropped to the floor and crawled in behind the
counter. Right then, I knew I’d blown it with Alice. I sat at her feet,
cowering like a frightened puppy.
She was about to protest when I raised a finger up to my lips.
‘Sssssshhhh!’
Sure enough the shop door opened and in stepped trouble.
‘How ya goin’, Alice?’ called Barlow. ‘Yer lookin’ well today.’
Beside me Alice’s body stiffened.
‘What d’ya want?’ she asked.
‘Struth, that’s a nice how d’ya do. I’m ’ere ta take two a them pies
off yer ’ands.’
For a second I thought about showing myself and making a stand.
I’d often wondered, seeing the wounded soldiers return home from
the fighting abroad, how I would have fared had I been old enough to
sling a rifle over my shoulder. Now I knew.
While Alice fetched the pies I lay low and buried my head. On the
other side of the counter, Barlow began sniffing.
‘I s’pose ya’ll be along ta see me this Sat’d’y then?’ he said. ‘We’re
playin’ at ’ome.’
‘I’ll be goin’ awright,’ said Alice, ‘but it’s not you I’ll be lookin’ at.
Ya got murdered last week. Cost us the game, I reckon.’
With my back against the counter I thought of Nostrils and smiled.
‘He were lucky, that bloke. I’ll fix ’im up next time we play ’em,
don’t worry about that.’
With the transaction complete, Barlow took the pies and stepped
towards the door.
‘By the way,’ he said. ‘If ya change yer mind ’bout goin’ ta the
flicks, ya know where ta find me.’
After the door closed, Alice dropped the coins into the register.
‘Thanks fer that,’ I said. ‘I take it yer not all that keen on Jimmy
Barlow.’
‘He’s a tosser. He thinks he can push people round just because he’s
done a bit a boxin’.’
‘Ya don’t like boxin’?’
‘I hate it.’
My father taught me many things when he was alive. He told me that
a true test of character was not measured by the amount of times a
man got knocked to the ground. After all, life packed a punch like
nothing else. A true test of a man’s character was in his ability to pick
himself up.
Character-wise, I’d failed to rack up a single point in the last half
hour. I sat against the counter and reeled in my legs. Instead of
passing by me, Alice stopped and placed her hands on her hips.
‘Listen, it’s been real fun havin’ ya here, but yer really gettin’ on me
nerves now. If yer not goin’ ta buy anythin’, get outta me way, will ya.
I’ve work ta do.’
Sitting there with my knees hard up against my chest I suddenly
remembered why it was I’d come into the shop in the first place.
‘Cripes!’