Even though it was a little late for heroics, I picked myself up off
the floor and walked back around the counter.
‘Do ya by any chance ’ave a Kenneth Cornwall workin’ here?’ I
asked.
Alice looked surprised.
‘Kenneth Cornwall?’ she asked. ‘What’s it to ya?’
‘I’d like a word in his ear, if I could?’
Finally I had her attention. It was the moment I’d been waiting for
all afternoon. I’d dreamt of this moment, but now, as she fixed me
with her beautiful brown eyes, I tell you, I felt mighty uncomfortable.
Slowly she turned then waltzed towards the rear door, pushed it
open and yelled.
‘Dad, there’s someone out ’ere wants a word with ya.’
Suddenly the cream bun in my gut began making a move.
‘Dad?’ I asked.
‘That’s right, I’m Alice Cornwall.’
For a few seconds I stood there, stunned. I considered going to
ground behind the counter again, only this time Alice was on to me.
As I ducked my head she scurried back and stood with her arms
folded, blocking my path.
‘Ah, no ya don’t.’
Clearly, bolting was my only option. I was all set to leave when
Kenneth Cornwall poked his head through the rear door.
‘Who is it, Alice?’
‘Er…’
Alice looked to me for a name.
‘Charlie Feehan,’ I whispered.
‘He says ’is name is Charlie Feehan.’
‘What’s ’e want?’
I had no reason to doubt that the head in the doorway belonged to
Alice’s father, but the way it bobbed when it spoke, the whole thing
reminded me of a puppet show. It was as if the head itself were
attached to a stick.
‘I’d like a word with ya, Mr Cornwall,’ I said. ‘In private, if ya don’t
mind?’
For a second the bobbing stopped.
‘Awright then,’ he answered. ‘Ya can come out back.’
I smiled at Alice and walked slowly to the rear of the shop. A few
yards from the doorway I felt the warmth radiating from the ovens in
the back room. The sweet smell of baking bread hung so thick in the
air I could almost taste it.
Further in, Kenneth Cornwall, complete with arms and legs, stood
leaning on a bench to my left, a cigarette tucked behind his ear.
Straightaway my eyes were drawn to his face. I couldn’t explain it at
first but as I stepped closer I began to understand the reason for my
fascination. Alice was her father’s daughter. Dead spit.
Up close I could see her in his face – the brown eyes, the red hair
and the freckles. But Kenneth Cornwall looked tired. He had none of
Alice’s fire about him. In his eyes I saw none of her spark, not even a
flicker.
‘What d’ya want?’ he asked.
‘I’m here fer Mr Taylor’s money.’
‘I ain’t got it,’ he replied.
Before I could give him the tea and bickies spiel, Kenneth Cornwall
lifted himself off the bench and hobbled towards the oven with a limp
so severe he reminded me of a penguin. As he opened the oven door I
shifted my eyes to his feet and noticed the sole of his left boot was a
good two inches thicker than the one on his right.
‘What are ya gawkin’ at?’ he barked.
‘Nothin’ sir. I were just…’
‘I know what ya were doin’, ya were gawkin’. Ain’t yer mother
never told ya it’s rude ta gawk?’
‘Yes sir, she has.’
‘Well?’
The two of us were getting nowhere. It was time to be firm.
‘Mr Cornwall… about the money.’
‘I told ya, son, there ain’t no money. Ya tell yer Mr Taylor, I ain’t
got his three pound. He’ll ’ave ta wait.’
‘Mr Cornwall, I don’t think ya understand.’
With the heat of the oven in his face Mr Cornwall picked up a
rolling pin and charged towards me. In seconds he was in front of me
with his right arm raised high above his head. He was wild.
‘Jaysus, lad. I can’t pay the money if I ain’t got it. I’m skint. D’ya
hear me?’
‘Dad!’