It was Alice, standing in the doorway behind me.
‘Put it down, Dad.’
Slowly Mr Cornwall lowered his arm and dropped the rolling pin to
the ground. I went to pick it up but Alice stopped me.
‘Just go,’ she said.
Before leaving, I turned at the doorway and saw father and
daughter in each other’s arms. Miraculously, words began to leave my
mouth.
‘Alice, I just wanted ta…’
‘Leave us alone. Yer just like the rest of ’em.’
As soon as my feet hit the footpath outside, my legs took me off at a
cracking pace towards Richmond. Running had always come easy to
me, but now as I double-timed it up Brunswick Street, each part of my
body seemed intent on doing its own thing. There was no rhythm in
my stride and my breathing came loud and laboured. So accustomed
was I to the foulness of the Richmond air, it was as if my lungs
wanted no part of the freshness the Fitzroy streets offered them.
The running however was the least of my problems. As I flew across
Punt Road into Richmond, two names began filling my head – Alice
and Kenneth Cornwall. With the Victoria Parade shops on either side
of me, my mind returned to the cake shop in Fitzroy. My failure in
retrieving Squizzy’s money terrified me enough, what with the mood
I’d left him in, but there was something else nagging me. It was the
picture of Alice and her father in the backroom. During the city runs,
I’d been able to distance myself from Squizzy’s debtors. To me they
were simply names on a list.
But now, after my meeting with the Cornwalls, I realised that these
people were more than just names. They were real people, desperate
people – people with families, people just like Ma and me.
A little way up Church Street, outside an address well known to the
men of Richmond, a familiar figure stepped from a gate and onto the
path in front of me. It was Daisy Moloney. Had it been anyone else, I
would have kept running. But Daisy Moloney was a good excuse for a
walk.
‘Afternoon, Daisy,’ I puffed, slowing up.
Seeing me, she broke into a smile.
‘Charlie! Gawd, fer a minute there I thought ya was one a me
customers. There’s some right nutters among ’em.’
‘Ya knockin’ off, are ya, Daisy?’
‘That I am. Me youngest’ll be wantin’ some time on the breast, poor
thing. Struth, they’re fit ta burst, they are.’
For a second I let my eyes drop to her chest and noticed a black silk
camisole under her coat.
‘I ’aven’t seen ya fer a while, Charlie. Good Lord, yer a ’andsome
devil. I tell ya, if ya was a bit older, I’d give up the game, I would.
Ya’d put a smile on a lady’s face, I’m sure a it. How’s yer ma, by the
way?’
‘Not so good, as it ’appens. She’s spendin’ ’er days ’idin’ in the ’ouse,
cleanin’. No one comes visitin’ no more. She’s scared ’em all off. She
reckons everyone’s talkin’ ’bout us.’
‘What about yer relations, Charlie? Surely there’s someone who can
help out?’
‘Nah… Me dad’s folks died when he was a lad, and Ma’s… I
dunno… They’ve never bothered with us, really.’
Beside me, Daisy slipped her arm through mine.
‘I’m sorry, Charlie,’ she said. ‘And what about you? How are ya,
yerself?’
‘I’m awright. I’ve found some work as it ’appens.’
‘So I’ve ’eard, Charlie. They tell me yer runnin’ fer Squizzy Taylor?’
‘That’s right.’
‘And what does yer ma think? I’m surprised she’s agreed ta it.’
Straightaway, Daisy read the answer in my face.
‘Yer mean ta say she doesn’t know? Good Lord, Charlie. What about
yer wages, then? How are ya explainin’ the money?’
‘I’m not. I’m savin’ it.’
‘But…’
‘Don’t worry, Daisy. We ain’t starvin’ yet. Ma don’t discuss the
finances with me, but I think we’ve a little in the purse still. I gotta do
this while I can, though. It don’t come round every day.’
Daisy tightened her grip on my arm.
‘Listen, Charlie,’ she said. ‘I know ya don’t need me tellin’ yer, after
all, we all got ta make a livin’, but there’s some nasty types in that
Richmond push. Take it from me.’
‘I can look after meself, Daisy.’
‘I’m sure ya can, Charlie. Just watch yerself. Ya must be makin’ a
nice quid or two, eh?’
‘He pays awright.’