Before the incident with Mr Peacock, I may well have left Daisy
right then and headed to Darlington Parade, but the thought of her
walking home alone unnerved me. With her good looks and smooth
dark skin she was a popular choice for the men who frequented her
place of employ. And, having lost her husband in the war, many of
those men believed they were entitled to a ‘free ride’ after hours.
At number fifteen Cubitt Street, Daisy kissed my cheek and headed
up the path. On the verandah she turned and waved.
‘Ya use that money fer somethin’ good, Charlie. Ya hear?’
As soon as she spoke, a baby began screaming inside. The door
opened and Daisy disappeared so quickly it was as if the house had
swallowed her up. Although time was against me, I stood by her front
gate a while with her voice still ringing in my head.
Two words kept repeating themselves.
Something good…
Something good…
Something good…
My mind raced back to the cake shop, to Alice and her father, and
suddenly I knew exactly what it was I had to do. Quickly I raced home
and let myself inside. In the living room Ma was curled up asleep on
the floor with a scrubbing brush in her hand. Beside her a cake of
soap sat floating in a bucket of murky water. I continued on to my
room and dived under the bed in search of the envelope.
There.
Between thumb and forefinger, I counted three pound notes, folded
them into my coat pocket with the rest of the money and headed out
the door. This time the running came easy. By the time I’d reached the
end of Cubitt Street I’d settled into a rhythm so sweet I could have run
a hundred mile.
Something good…
Something good…
Something good…
In a matter of minutes, Dolly was standing before me with a
tumbler of whisky in her hand.
‘Charlie, where’ve ya been?’
‘I’ve been collectin’ the money, just like Squizzy said.’
‘Ya better get in there, ’e’s been callin’ fer ya fer an hour.’
After a few deep breaths, I made my way down the hall and poked
my head through the office door. Seeing me, Squizzy shot up in his
chair and went for a gun on the table in front of him.
‘Flamin’ ’eck, lad. What are ya thinkin’, sneakin’ up on a man like
that? I’ve a good mind ta put a bullet in yer backside.’
‘I’m sorry, Mr Taylor, I thought ya was in a meetin’.’
Slowly, Squizzy got up from his chair, moved to the window and
peeked through the curtain outside. When he returned, he dropped
the gun onto the table, picked up his whisky and drained it. His red
cheeks told me it wasn’t his first.
‘Where ya been anyway? Did ya stop off fer a picnic, lad?’
‘No, sir.’
‘No? Ya took ya sweet time about it. D’ya ’ave the money?’
From my coat pocket I retrieved the notes and placed them on the
table.
‘Correct weight, is it, lad?’
‘It’s all there, Mr Taylor.’
‘Very good.’
In all my time working for Squizzy Taylor, I’d never seen him in
such a state. As he moved to the window for another look outside, he
reminded me of the rabbits down at Yarra Park. Even to be thinking it
was a dangerous occupation in itself, but to me, Squizzy Taylor looked
scared.
At the window he spoke with his back to me.
‘It’s only fair ta warn ya lad… things’ll be heatin’ up ’round ’ere.
I’ve another liquor run fer ya in a couple a nights. It’s a job fer two.’
‘We’ll be ’ere, Mr Taylor, no worries.’
‘Awright, Charlie. Get off ’ome.’