CHAPTER FOURTEEN
That night, after dinner, I left Ma and Jack in front of the fire, loaded
the trolley full of wood and called on the Redmonds next door. It
would take a lifetime to repay the Redmonds properly for all their
kindness. But now, with a free hand at the wood yard, I was at least
able to give them something. Out the back, Mrs Redmond was
hovering excitedly over a gramophone she had set up on a table on
the verandah.
‘Dadaaaah!… What d’ya think, Charlie?’ ‘Struth, must’ve cost a
fortune. Where’d ya get it?’ With a skipping rope draped over his
shoulders, Mr Redmond moved up beside me.
‘It was the wife’s idea, Charlie. I’m tellin’ yer right now, I had
nothin’ ta do with it.’
In these parts, a gramophone was as rare as hens’ teeth and quite
frankly I was a little surprised by Mr Redmond’s confession.
‘What are ya talkin’ about?’ I said. ‘It’s a beaut! You two’ll be
dancin’ yer boots off.’
Next to me, Mr Redmond took a step back.
‘Us two?’ said his wife. ‘It’s not fer us, Charlie. It’s fer you.’
‘Me? What would I want with a gramophone?’
‘Footwork, Charlie. It’s ta help yer along with yer footwork.’
Suddenly I understood the reason for Mr Redmond’s odd behaviour.
If I’d needed any further reason to quit boxing, then this was it.
‘Look, it’s very kind of ya ta go ta all that bother,’ I said. ‘And it’s
not like I’m ungrateful or nothin’, but I’ve got somethin’ I need ta tell
ya.’
This time Mr Redmond took a step forward.
‘What is it, Charlie?’
‘I’m retirin’ from the boxin’.’
‘Ya what?’
‘I’m retirin’.’
‘Retirin’?… It’s the nursery rhymes, is it lad?’
‘Nah.’
‘It’s the gramophone then? I knew it were a daft idea.’
‘It’s not the gramophone.’
‘But ya can’t be retirin’, we haven’t even started on the bag yet.
Come on, we’ll hit the bag.’
‘It’s nothin’ about the trainin’, Mr Redmond. I just ain’t cut out fer
the boxin’, that’s all. Runnin’s me game.’
For a few moments, the three of us stood quietly, surveying the
training equipment. Finally, it was Mr Redmond who broke the
silence.
‘Ya sure it weren’t the gramophone?’ he asked.
‘I’m sure. But it does seem a bit of a waste. D’ya think I could
borrow it fer a couple a nights, Mrs Redmond? I’ve someone that
needs a little cheerin’ up.’
‘Course ya can, Charlie. Take it fer as long as ya like. There’s a
record there, too.’
As was her habit of late, Mrs Redmond raised her hand up to her
mouth and half-smiled before disappearing inside. It saddened me to
see her behaving this way. Like Ma, she too had lost her smile. So
conscious was she of her rotting teeth that now, whenever there was
company about, she hid them behind her hand. And, on those
occasions where her hands were full and something tickled her fancy,
she’d kill her smile by forcing her lips shut.
With her gone, Mr Redmond and I began unloading the wood from
my trolley. He too looked glum.
‘Yer still runnin’ fer Squizzy Taylor, I ’ear.’
‘I am, Mr Redmond.’
‘Ya know, I ’eard a few things at The Bull and Mouth the other
night, Charlie. They’re sayin’ there’s an almighty stoush brewin’ with
the Fitzroy push. Guns an’ all.’
‘I wouldn’t know, Mr Redmond. I keep me ’ead outta things like
that. I’m runnin’ is all.’
‘So ya keep sayin’.’
The two of us continued on then loaded the gramophone onto the
empty trolley. Mr Redmond seemed distracted.
‘Ya know, I could train yer, if yer like,’ he said.
‘Huh?’
‘In the runnin’, I mean.’
‘What makes yer think I need trainin’?’
‘’Ave ya ever thought about racin’, Charlie?’
‘Racin’?’
‘Yeah. There’s a foot race I’ve been thinkin’ of. Ya ever heard a the
Ballarat Mile?’
‘Can’t say I ’ave.’
‘It’s a professional race, with prize money an’ all. I’ve seen yer
runnin’, Charlie. Yer a natural miler. With a bit a trainin’, who
knows?’
‘Yer said there were prize money involved, Mr Redmond?’
‘That’s right. There’s a decent purse from what I been told.’
Standing there in the Redmonds’ yard, my thoughts returned once
again to the cake shop. Suddenly Kenneth Cornwall appeared before
me with the rolling pin raised high above his head. There was
desperation in his eyes.
‘And this Ballarat Mile, Mr Redmond…… It’s ridgy didge, is it?’
‘Course it is, Charlie. We’ve a month or so ta get ready. I promise,
there’ll be no skippin’. It’ll just be you and me. What d’ya say?’
I smiled and offered him my right hand.
‘No skippin’, eh?’
‘Not even a hop.’
‘Awright, Mr Redmond. Yer on.’