At home I steered the squeaking trolley up the side of the house and
out the back. Off to my right, near the fence, a bad tempered ball of
feathers jumped from his pen and craned his neck high.
Struth!
Quickly I raised myself up to match him and shouted.
‘I’m warnin’ ya, Harry. Don’t even think about it. How was I ta
know ya were a boy?’
By the look of him, Harry didn’t feel much like talking. Instead he
raised the feathers on his back and charged, squawking and quacking
so ferociously I very near soiled my pants.
The first nip caught my coat so I hit back with my right hand and
smacked his bill hard. With the determination of a bulldog, he came
again, only this time he took a swipe between my legs.
‘Ouch! That there were below the belt, Harry. If ya keep fightin’
dirty, I’ll ’ave ya.’
I lashed out again with my right and smacked his bill for the second
time. Neither of us were willing to back down so the two of us went at
it, trading blows for a while.
Nip.
Smack.
Nip.
Smack.
Nip.
Smack.
Finally I’d had enough. Next time he lunged I took another swipe
and caught him with an open hand. Then, before he had time to
recover I followed up with a backhander, so sweet it ruffled his
feathers.
Finkin’ and footwork.
He hadn’t expected the one-two. As he waddled back, stunned, I
opened the back door, picked up the gramophone and slipped safely
inside.
Had anyone been watching the bout I have no doubt they would
have awarded me the points. Still, you had to hand it to Harry – as a
featherweight he sure knew a thing or two about the fight game.
Inside, the house felt sleepy and warm. Ma and Jack were asleep in
a living-room chair, stretched contentedly in front of the fire like two
cosy cats. I offloaded the gramophone onto a side table and stood
watching them awhile. I loved seeing them like this. Jack lay
sprawled across Ma’s chest, his head nestled in under her neck.
Standing before them with my back to the fire, I was under no illusion
as to who was responsible for my family’s good fortune. It was
Squizzy Taylor who was buttering our bread now, and for that I owed
him a great deal.
Quietly, I lowered myself onto one knee and kissed Jack’s cheek. He
yawned then wriggled onto his side. The movement seemed to trigger
a response in Ma who began patting his back gently with her right
hand.
It was strange seeing Ma this close. For the last few weeks the two
of us had pretty much kept our distance, but now, as my eyes
examined her face, I felt a desperate need to touch her. With my
forefinger, I gently smoothed her dark fringe from her eyes. Except for
her eyelids and a set of tiny fingermarks down her left cheek, her face
was porcelain white. Cracks had begun to appear in the thick layers of
powder around her mouth. I picked up her free hand and pressed her
warm palm against my face. She stirred and opened her eyes.
‘Charlie.’
‘It’s awright, Ma.’
‘Who’s ’ere? Don’t tell me we’ve visitors callin’? Ya never told me
we ’ad visitors.’
‘It’s just me, Ma. Everythin’s awright. Here, let me take Jack. I’ll put
’im in the bassinet.’
In the past, the slightest disturbance would have woken Jack, but
now as I lifted him up, his body fell heavy and limp across my
shoulder. The warmth in the house agreed with him so much that he’d
taken to sleeping through the night. The serenity had unnerved me at
first. More than once I’d found myself tiptoeing down the hall to Ma’s
room to check on the rise and fall of his chest.
With Jack tucked safely in the bassinet, I returned to the living
room with two cups of steaming tea. Ma was sitting up, staring into
the fire.