‘He’s put on a few pounds, I reckon, Ma.’
‘That ’e ’as, Charlie. He’s an appetite on ’im, fer sure.’
On the rare occasions the two of us spent time together, the
conversation always revolved around Jack.
Jack was easy.
It made a change from the time my dad was alive. Whenever the
family sat down for dinner, Ma would be at me, firing questions
across the table.
‘Crikey, dear, yer as bad as a copper,’ my father would joke. Then
he’d turn to me and wink. ‘If I were you, Charlie, I’d be careful
answerin’ any of ’er questions. Ya’ll get yerself in ta strife.’
But things had changed. Now Ma refrained from even the simplest
of questions. She never asked me about my schooling any more, nor
did she inquire after my friends. Questions involved answers, and for
Ma, I suppose, it was easier not to ask. So instead, the two of us made
do with nappy rash and rice pudding.
Draining the last of my tea, I suddenly remembered the
gramophone.
‘I nearly forgot, Ma,’ I said, rising to my feet. ‘I’ve a little surprise
fer ya. What d’ya think?’
‘A gramophone? But Charlie, where did ya…’
‘Don’t worry, Ma, I borrowed it from the Redmonds. I’ve a record
’ere as well. What d’ya say?’
‘I don’t know, Charlie. I’m not ready ta be…’
‘Ma, if I ’ave to hear another word about the chaffin’ on Jack’s arse,
I reckon I’ll go mad. Come on, why don’t ya get rid a yer apron?’
If there was one thing my parents had loved to do, it was dance.
Before Jack was born and when the money permitted, the two of them
would leave me at home with the Redmonds, and head off to one of
the many dance halls in town. Nothing pleased me more than to hear
them return home from a night of dancing. They’d burst through the
front door, kissing and cuddling like a couple half their age.
Sometimes my father would stumble into my room and sit himself on
the edge of my bed.
‘Charlie,’ he’d whisper. ‘Whatever ya do… find yerself a girl who
can dance.’
I continued cranking the record then gently lowered the needle into
place.
‘Ya’ll like this one, Ma, it’s called, I’m Forever Blowin’ Bubbles.’
As I stepped to the centre of the room, Ma rose from her chair and
slowly removed her apron. She was stalling. She forced a smile then
back-pedalled to the fire. As a piano started up, I went to her and
extended my hand.
‘May I ’ave this dance?’ I asked.
Finally she surrendered, and took my hand.
Only a few steps in I discovered that dancing was a great deal
harder than it looked. My parents had made it seem easy, the way
they glided across the floor.
‘There’s a bit to this dancin’ caper, Ma. How am I doin?’
‘Yer doin’ fine, Charlie. Stop lookin’ at yer feet and relax a little.’
Her voice sounded strange, so I looked up at her face and noticed
she was smiling.
‘Yer not laughin’ at me dancin’, are ya, Ma?’
‘Laughin’? Me?’
‘Yeah, you. Looked as though ya were laughin’.’
When the record finished, I replaced the needle and quickly
returned to Ma. I clicked my fingers and hummed the tune out loud.
‘By crikey, Charlie, yer gettin’ more like yer father every day.’
I smiled and kept clicking until Ma pulled me close.
‘They never liked ’im, ya know, Charlie.’
Her words took me by surprise.
‘Who didn’t, Ma?’ I asked, confused.
‘My parents,’ she replied. ‘Yer grandma and grandpa… They
disapproved of ’im. Can ya believe that, Charlie? They wanted nothin’
ta do with me after I married yer father. Said I was marryin’ below
meself.’
‘Is that why they never come ta see us then?’
‘Yeah, that’s why, Charlie… Silly, ain’t it?’
‘Are ya sorry, are ya Ma?’
‘Sorry? Don’t be daft. Why would I be sorry? I got you and Jack
’aven’t I?’
‘Yeah, course ya ’ave, Ma. I ain’t goin’ nowhere.’
As she wrapped her arms around my back, I felt her head fall onto
my shoulder.
‘I miss him, Charlie,’ she whispered.
‘Me too, Ma. Me too.’