CHAPTER FIFTEEN
The next morning, as I closed our front door, I filled my head with
Ma’s smiling face. Mr Redmond was standing on his verandah
checking the conditions overhead. He appeared to be talking to
himself but then I noticed Clarrie’s head poking from the Gladstone
bag he had slung over his left shoulder.
‘Awright, smart arse, yer on,’ he said. ‘I’ll bet ya a bone if it starts
rainin’ while we’re out.’
Seeing me, he stepped off the verandah then gave Clarrie’s head a
pat.
‘Here’s our man now, Clarrie… Charlie, I’d like ya ta meet yer new
trainin’ partner.’
‘Who, ’im?’
‘Too right. The idea came ta me last night. Any mug can run a mile,
Charlie. What ya need is a sprint. Ya need ta be able ta pull out
somethin’ in the ’ome straight.’
As we continued on, Bert Robinson announced his arrival in Cubitt
Street.
‘Milko! he cried. ‘Milko!’
Outside number twenty-four, he pulled on the reins and his ageing
Clydesdale came to a halt.
‘Milko!… Milko!’
From the safety of the Gladstone bag, Clarrie pricked his ears and
began barking.
‘Mornin’, Bert,’ called Mr Redmond.
‘Mornin’, Cecil.’
Like most of the people in Cubitt Street, Bert Robinson was all too
familiar with Mr Redmond’s fixation with the elements. He looked
skyward then shook his head.
‘There’s a spot a rain comin’, I reckon, Cecil.’
‘Rain? Yer’ve got ta be kiddin’. Ain’t one of them clouds is a
cumulus. What yer seein’ is more ya cirrus variety.’
‘Yer seem mighty sure a yerself, Cecil. Ya willin’ ta make it
interestin’?’
Mr Redmond turned to me and winked.
‘Very well, Bert… Same deal as last time?’
‘Sounds fair. If it rains before lunch, though, even a spot, I’ll be
expectin’ some rabbits.’
‘Ha! Yer outta ya depth, I’m afraid, Bert. Ya may as well pour me a
couple a pints a milk now, and I’ll take ’em ’ome ta the missus.’
By the time we arrived at Yarra Park, Clarrie was itching to go. As I
sat on the ground tying the laces on my boots, Mr Redmond plucked
Clarrie from the bag and held him tight.
‘Now remember what I said, Charlie. Fer a mile race, ya need some
speed in yer legs. Ya’ll ’ave ya work cut out fer ya, but I want ya ta
stay with ’im as best ya can. Awright?’
‘Awright.’ I nodded.
‘Come on then, on yer feet.’
As I stretched my legs, Mr Redmond gave Clarrie a final kiss then
leaned towards me.
‘By the way, I’d prefer ya left the rabbitin’ ta Clarrie, if ya don’t
mind. People might start talkin’ if they spot ya with a rabbit in yer
mouth… Awright, are ya ready?’
I was.
Mr Redmond kept a tight hold on Clarrie, then lowered him to the
ground.
‘Take yer marks… Set… Go!’
We were off.
In a matter of seconds, Clarrie had opened up a sizeable gap. He
tore across the park and headed in a straight line towards the river,
then disappeared into some bushes.
Mr Redmond shouted instructions behind me.
‘Stay with ’im, Charlie!’
When I arrived at the bushes, Clarrie emerged, wild with
excitement. He stood for a moment, panting, then hurled himself into
the undergrowth again. Suddenly a rabbit darted out some five yards
to my left, with Clarrie close behind. From a standing start I worked
my arms and sped off after them. My goal now was to keep them in
sight.
Sensing that Clarrie was closing, the rabbit began changing its line.
It darted left then right, causing me to slip.
‘What are ya restin’ fer?’ screamed Mr Redmond. ‘Get up, Charlie!’
Quickly I picked myself up and saw that the rabbit was heading
back to the bushes. Just as it looked as if he’d made it, Clarrie
pounced.