In a final desperate bid, the rabbit rolled onto its back and began
thrashing its back legs into Clarrie’s ribs. Too late. Clarrie lunged,
opened his mouth and sank his teeth into the rabbit’s neck.
The bunny was stew.
Six rabbits later, Mr Redmond blew a whistle, calling it quits.
‘Awright, you two,’ he shouted. ‘That’ll do ya fer today.’
Exhausted, I ambled back across the park, sucking in lungfuls of air.
At my feet, Clarrie looked disappointed.
‘Good work, Charlie,’ smiled Mr Redmond. ‘How are ya feelin’?’
I collapsed at his feet, barely able to speak.
‘Flamin’ ’eck,’ I gasped. ‘I ain’t run as ’ard as that in me life.’
‘Ya did well, Charlie, real well. Ya’ll be flyin’ before long. Take it
from me.’
Lying on my back, I looked up at the sky as a drop of rain hit my
face.
‘I ain’t no expert, Mr Redmond… but them clouds up there… ain’t
they cumulus?’
Strangely enough, when I met Nostrils at the corner of Swan and
Church Street that night, I was in the mood for dancing. Things were
finally looking up. As I approached the intersection, Nostrils stepped
from a shop awning and waved.
‘How’s it goin’, Charlie?’
‘I’m scrapin’ by, Nostrils. What about yerself? How’s the trainin’
goin?’
‘Couldn’t be better. They’ve picked me at centre ’alf forward
tomorrow.’
‘Centre ’alf forward? About time, I reckon. Ya were wasted out on
the flank. Key position, that’s yer go. Who’ve ya got, anyway?’
‘Carlton. They’re bottom a the ladder.’
‘Flamin’ ’eck, ya’ll kick a bag full.’
Talented as he was, Nostrils had never been big on compliments.
After only a few games, the name Norman Heath was already doing
the rounds amongst the people of Richmond as a junior who would
one day wear the yellow and black at senior level. Had it been me in
his shoes, I dare say the attention would have caused my head to
swell the size of a football. But Nostrils wasn’t like that. On the
football field, he was as ferocious as anyone I’d seen. You could see it
in his eyes. He wanted nothing more than to one day fill a spot in the
seniors, but come siren time, when he stripped the jumper from his
back, Nostrils could not understand what all the fuss was about.
Chatting away, the two of us set off up Church Street towards
Squizzy’s place.
‘How’s the boxin’ goin’, Charlie?’ he asked.
‘I’ve retired.’
‘Ya what?’
‘I’ve hung up me gloves, Nostrils.’
‘Dead set?’
‘Yeah. Mr Redmond’s trainin’ me fer a foot race. I’m enterin’ the
Ballarat Mile. Ya heard a it?’
‘Nah, I can’t say I ’ave.’
‘There’s prize money an’ all.’
As we walked up Church Street, I noticed a ‘FOR SALE’ sign,
hanging on the fence of Porter’s Wood Yard. Nostrils pulled up beside
me.
‘Well, fancy that,’ I said. ‘Mr Porter is sellin’ the wood yard. Imagine
ownin’ a wood yard, Nostrils.’
Nostrils laughed then moved in front of the sign as if posing for a
photograph.
‘I can see it now, Charlie,’ he smiled. ‘Heath and Feehan Timber
Yard. It’s got a ring about it, I reckon.’
‘’Ang on a jiff. Yer takin’ a few liberties there, ain’t ya? Yer’ve given
yerself top billin’. Feehan and Heath, if ya don’t mind.’
Pressing on, the debate continued until we turned into Darlington
Parade. Besides Squizzy’s Buick, two other cars were parked outside
number eighteen. With Nostrils behind me I pushed through the front
gate and noticed three bicycles leaning against the side fence.