‘Squizzy ’avin’ a party, is he?’ asked Nostrils.
‘Not likely,’ I replied. ‘He’s in no mood ta be celebratin’, I’ll give yer
the nod. Best if ya let me do the talkin’ tonight, Nostrils.’
Judging from the transport out front, I knew there to be a fair
crowd gathered inside. Something was up.
As we stepped onto the verandah, Nostrils pointed to a metal plate,
newly installed at eye level in the front door.
‘What’s goin’ on?’ he whispered.
I shrugged and rapped my knuckles on the wood below.
Seconds later the metal plate slid open and we were greeted by a
pair of steely dark eyes. It was Knuckles.
‘Yeah?’
‘It’s Charlie Feehan, Knuckles. Mr Taylor’s expectin’ us.’
Inside, a haze of cigarette smoke hung thick in the air. In his office,
Squizzy had the floor.
‘It’s all set, then. Tomorrow night we take it to ’em. Dasher and
Fred, ya’ll be drivin’ the cars. I want three men in each. When we pull
up outside I want yas all ta empty yer guns inta the ’ouse. Aim fer the
windows, and if ya see anythin’ move inside, shoot ta kill. A few
minutes is all we’ll ’ave, gents. Any questions?’
There were none.
‘Awright then, see yas tomorrow. And there’ll be no drinkin’
beforehand. I want keen eyes on the lotta ya.’
Standing with my back hard against the wall, I counted eight men
file past me out the door. When the last of them was gone, Squizzy
appeared in the hallway with a gun in his hand.
‘Well, well, well. If it ain’t the Good Samaritan, ’imself. Come down
’ere lad, I want a word with ya.’
During my time under Squizzy’s employ, I’d seen my boss in many
different moods. I’d grown accustomed to his sarcastic tongue. But
tonight the tone in his voice was different. There was a viciousness in
it, and it frightened me.
I shuffled down the hall and stepped into Squizzy’s office.
‘What the flamin’ ’eck d’ya think yer up ta?’ he roared. ‘Ya thinkin’
a joinin’ the priesthood, are ya lad? It’s charity work yer interested in,
is it?’
The outburst forced me back a step.
‘I’m sorry, Mr Taylor, I don’t think I follow.’
‘Yer don’t, eh?… Well let me fill ya in, then. Yesterday, I had a visit
from yer Kenneth Cornwall, as it ’appens. Yer familiar with the man,
are ya not?’
‘Yes, sir. He runs the cake shop in Fitzroy.’
‘That’s right. Well this mug turns up at me house, pleadin’ fer some
extra time on his payment. Anyway, I take a look at the books and
what d’ya know? Seems this Cornwall bloke’s already paid up.’
‘Mr Taylor, I can explain…’
In a flash, Squizzy jumped to his feet, gun in hand, the sudden rush
of blood causing a vein in his neck to swell to the size of a sausage.
‘I don’t want ya ta explain nothin’, ya little runt. I’m not payin’ ya
ta be givin’ me money away. I’m conductin’ a business, ’ere. Struth, if
anyone gets wind a this, I’ll have every no ’oper in Melbourne lined
up at me door wantin’ a ’and out.’
I stood before him, shaking, resisting the urge to wipe his spit from
my face. Suddenly his eyes left me and settled on Nostrils.
‘And what about you, nosey? Did ya ’ave anythin’ ta do with this?’
‘Er…’
‘He ’ad nothin’ ta do with it, Mr Taylor. It were me.’
Just as quickly as it had come, the bulging vein in his neck
disappeared. It was as if someone had pricked it with a fork. After a
couple of deep breaths, he replaced the gun in his hand with a piece
of paper from the table.
‘I’ve got a liquor run ’ere that’ll be right up yer alley, lad. Fitzroy, as
it ’appens.’
Throwing the paper to me, it dropped short and fell to the floor in
front of the desk.
‘I tell ya what… if ya stuff this up, ya can find yerself another job.’
I’d reached the door with the paper in my hand when Squizzy’s
voice stopped me.
‘By the way, lad, and ya can take this from me. It ain’t a good time
ta be makin’ friends in Fitzroy.’
Outside in Darlington Parade, I was still shaking. It wasn’t until we
got to the end of the street that one of us found the courage to speak.
It was Nostrils.