He looked over his shoulder just in case.
‘He’s lost ’is marbles, Charlie. This is gettin’ dangerous.’
In my heart I knew he was right but it was my head I was listening
to. Ma and Jack were in there, cuddling in front of the fire.
‘Ya can call it quits if ya like, Nostrils,’ I said, walking on. ‘I’ll do
the job on me own.’
Nostrils quickened his pace then grabbed hold of my arm.
‘Charlie, will ya listen ta me? I’m yer mate. Someone’s gunna get
’imself killed ’ere. Did ya not ’ear ’im, ’e’s talkin’ guns?’
‘I ’eard ’im, Nostrils, and I ain’t stoppin’. If it weren’t fer Squizzy
Taylor, we’d be out on the street. Yer forgettin’, I ain’t got a father
like yerself. I wish I did, but I ain’t. And it’s not as if me Ma can go
out ta work. She’s got Jack on the breast. It’s me who’s gotta think
about the family now. We ain’t got any money comin’ in. This is all
we got. If yer want ta quit, it’s up ta you. I can do it on me own.’
With that, I left Nostrils and turned the corner into Waltham Street.
As I pulled the piece of paper from my coat pocket, I heard footsteps
behind me. They grew louder and louder until Nostrils was at my side
again, smiling.
‘I’m only doin’ it ’cause I know yer afraid a the dark,’ he said.
‘Anyway, yer too scrawny ta be luggin’ liquor by yerself.’
‘Thanks, Nostrils.’
By the time we got to Goodwood Street the two of us were
laughing. At Henry Stoke’s two-up school we made our way down the
side and around to the rear door. Rubbing his hands together, Nostrils
stepped forward as if he was taking centre stage at Her Majesty’s
Theatre itself, then, with a dramatic sweep of his arm, he rang the
bell.
Ding! Ding!… Ding! Ding!
‘Not bad, eh?’ he asked.
‘Yer a natural, Nostrils. And ’ere’s me believin’ I could ’ave done the
job without yer. I dunno know what I were thinkin’.’
On the other side of the door came the sound of movement.
‘Identify yerselves!’ called a familiar voice.
Nostrils, still buoyed by his stunning performance with the bell,
stepped forward and yelled a reply.
‘It’s Squizzy Taylor’s lads, Mr Jenkins.’
Seconds later the door opened and Jenkins ushered us in.
‘Security, lads,’ he explained. ‘Boss’s orders. It’s all ready fer ya.
Let’s see… three whisky and a dozen beer. It’s a load and a ’alf,
tonight. Is it far ya gotta go?’
‘It is, sir,’ I replied. ‘All the way ta Fitzroy.’
‘Struth. Wait on, I’ll see if there’s a trolley floatin’ around.’
From a darkened doorway, Jenkins steered a flat-top trolley
towards us. He was an old man, too old to be sorting bottles, and
when he pulled up beside us he took a few moments to catch his
breath.
‘We’ll be right loadin’ up,’ I said. ‘Why don’t yer take a seat?’
‘Thanks, lads. Don’t mind if I do. They’ll be puttin’ me out ta
pasture before long.’
First, Nostrils and I divided the bottles into three cement bags then
lifted them carefully onto the trolley. To hide the liquor, we smashed
up boxes with our boots and placed the broken wood over the load.
When we were ready, Mr Jenkins lifted himself from the chair and
bade us farewell.
‘Now, lads,’ he said, ‘ya’ll stick out like dogs’ balls wheelin’ that
thing around at this time a night. Yer best ta take the back streets,
where ya can.’
‘Awright, Mr Jenkins, we’ll keep it in mind.’
Even without a trolley, running liquor was fraught with danger. It was
the weight of the load that was the problem. In a foot race, I’d back
Nostrils and me against a copper any day, but with the three bags of
bottles in our possession, the two of us were sitting ducks. And it
wasn’t just the law you had to look out for. In these parts, there were
men so thirsty for the grog I have no doubt that some of them would
have gone the knuckle for a half bottle of stale beer.
At the end of Goodwood Street, Nostrils and I slowed to a halt.
He looked nervous.
‘What d’ya reckon, Charlie?’
‘We’ll be right, Nostrils. The drop-off’s in Gore Street. We ain’t got
much choice but ta take a few main roads early on. After that, we’ll
cut through the gardens in Fitzroy, and we’re ’ome. Sound awright?’
‘Yeah, but I reckon we need ta sort somethin’ out before we start.’
‘What’s that, Nostrils?’
‘Which dog ball d’ya wanna be, left or right?’s