CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Whilst covering the main roads, we decided that Nostrils would
walk twenty yards ahead, checking for trouble as we went. If the path
looked clear then he’d wave me on. Surprisingly, we made our way up
Punt Road and Wellington Parade without incident then steered the
trolley into the darkness of the Fitzroy Gardens.
Easy.
Although the going was slow, we left the main path and opted for
the grass, dragging the trolley behind us. At first, everything appeared
black, but once our eyes adjusted we noticed how well the gardens
were lit.
‘Struth,’ whispered Nostrils, ‘it’s like Bourke Street, in ’ere.’
Despite the full moon overhead, the gardens were still a better
option than the streets. In the open spaces we moved fast, stopping to
rest in the shadows thrown by the giant elm trees. By the time we
reached the Albert Street border we were exhausted.
For a few minutes the two of us stood close, gazing up along the
road ahead.
‘We’re nearly there, Nostrils. What’s say we knock this on the ’ead?’
‘Suits me. I’ll be needin’ a decent nap before the game tomorrow.’
‘Awright, then. Just like before. You go on ahead, and remember –
keep yer wits about ya.’
About twenty yards up Eades Street, Nostrils turned and waved me
on.
When I pushed the trolley forward it rolled so smoothly across the
footpath it was as if the thing was driving itself. With St John’s
Cathedral on my left I continued on and stopped at Victoria Parade.
This was it – the home straight.
The finishing line, Gore Street, was in sight. We had only to cross to
the other side and we were there.
Out on the tram tracks, Nostrils gave me a wave.
Although there were people about, we had to keep moving.
As gently as I could, I rolled the trolley off the footpath onto
Victoria Parade and sped forward. The timing could not have been
better. Nostrils met me on the other side and after a short distance the
two of us swung left into Gore Street.
‘We’re lookin’ for number nine, Nostrils,’ I said, relieved. ‘A Mr
Wheeler.’
Beside me Nostrils counted the numbers out loud.
‘Three… five… seven… nine… This is it, Charlie. Number nine,
Gore Street.’
As we pushed through the gate, the two of us relaxed a little and
managed a smile.
‘I tell ya what, Charlie,’ said Nostrils. ‘There’s gotta be easier ways a
makin’ a quid.’
‘Maybe,’ I smirked. ‘But think a all the fun yer ’avin’.’
Number nine Gore Street was a single-fronted dwelling in a sad
state of disrepair. So bad was its condition, I had to double-check the
address just to make sure we had it right.
‘What’s yer problem?’ asked Nostrils.
‘Nothin’. Just seems a bit strange we’d be deliverin’ so much liquor
ta a place like this.’
‘What’s it say on yer paper?’
‘Mr Wheeler. Nine Gore Street, Fitzroy.’
‘Nine it is then. C’mon, Charlie, let’s get this done. I need me beauty
sleep.’
Stuffing the paper into my pocket, I left Nostrils on the path,
stepped up to the door and knocked.
Nothing.
Behind me Nostrils began fidgeting.
‘Put some bloody effort into it, ya sheila.’
I was about to try again when the door clicked open a fraction.
‘Mr Wheeler?’ I asked.
‘Who wants ta know?’
‘We’re Mr Taylor’s lads, sir. Here with the refreshments.’
‘Leave ’em on the porch.’
‘But…’
‘Leave ’em on the porch, I say. And don’t think I won’t be watchin’.’
Strange as it was, Nostrils and I had little choice but to do as we
were told. We offloaded the liquor, and without so much as a ‘thank
you’, found ourselves steering the empty trolley back down Gore
Street, towards home.
As we crossed over Victoria Parade, a wave of relief flooded
through us.
‘I don’t know what ya were worryin’ about, Nostrils,’ I joked. ‘Yer
like an old boiler, the way ya carry on sometimes.’
‘Me?’
‘Yeah, you. Listen, d’ya fancy a nice stroll in the gardens?’
‘As a matter a fact, I do. Only don’t go gettin’ any ideas.’
‘Ideas? Flamin’ ’eck, yer got tickets on yerself? There ain’t no
amount a beauty sleep goin’ ta improve that melon a yers, trust me.’
The journey home through the gardens was mostly downhill, so
Nostrils, like the Prince of Wales himself, boarded the trolley and
demanded a ride.