‘Take me ’ome, Charlie Boy, and don’t spare the ’orses.’
In seconds the two of us were hurtling down the path, howling up
at the moon like a couple of wild dogs. As we careered towards a
bend in the path, I noticed a group of boys gathered near an elm trunk
further up on our right. Quickly I dropped my boots to the ground in
an effort to slow the trolley, but it was too late. Six boys stepped out
onto the path in front of us. At the head of them stood Jimmy Barlow.
Six against two, the odds were against us again.
Standing some ten yards away, Barlow took a swig from a bottle of
beer then handed it to one of his mates.
‘Ain’t it funny, fellas, the people ya bump inta in the gardens? Are
yas lookin’ fer a good time, ladies?’
Nostrils raised himself up then joined me at head of the trolley.
‘Not tonight, thanks, Jimmy,’ he replied. ‘But I was wonderin’ if I
could trouble ya fer a couple a tips?’
Quickly, I leaned over and whispered a warning.
‘Pull yer head in, Nostrils.’
Not surprisingly, he ignored me.
‘It’s the footy,’ he continued. ‘I don’t seem ta be gettin’ me ’ands on
the ball, these days.’
To my way of thinking, there’s a time and a place for taking the
mickey – and quite clearly this was not one of them. Had I not been
able to see Nostrils’ moonlit beak from the corner of my left eye, I
would have sworn I was standing next to Squizzy Taylor himself.
As I knew he would, Barlow charged, only this time the others came
with him. We hadn’t the distance between us like our last encounter
in the park, but we had the trolley. With all my might, I pushed it
forward to slow them, and ran. It all happened so quickly. Together,
Nostrils and I jumped from the blocks. One second he was beside me,
the next he was down. He’d slipped.
In every person’s life, there come moments that define who you are
– minuscule moments where you’re called upon to act, faster than a
flip of a coin.
Heads or tails.
Yes or no.
Go or stay.
Perhaps my mind was already made up, but as I turned and saw
them on top of him, Nostrils raised his head and screamed.
‘Run, Charlie! Run!’
After only a short distance the two who were after me gave up the
chase. Even still, I continued running, left then right, darting behind
trees until I arrived at the Albert Road border. It was a mistake to be
out in the open so I walked back into the gardens and rested in some
bushes. My chest was heaving.
Should I return to Nostrils, or go for help?
He was my best friend. I couldn’t leave him.
After a few minutes I left the safety of the bushes and headed along
the west side of the garden, with Lansdowne Street on my right.
Somewhere near the middle, I swung left and inward, towards the
main path.
In the open spaces, like before, I travelled quickly then propped
beside a tree while contemplating my next move.
Soon enough I heard voices. It was amazing how well they carried
in the night. They were coming from my right, some thirty yards, at a
guess. At first the voices were nothing more than murmurs but as I
wriggled forward on my belly, I was able to hear their words as clear
as standing next to them. Some fifteen yards, I was now, close enough
to see their moonlit faces.
Nostrils was on the ground with Barlow beside him.
‘And when ya get the ball,’ Barlow said, ‘it’s a piece a cake… all ya
gotta do is kick it.’
Winding up, he slammed his right boot into Nostril’s ribs.
‘Are ya gettin’ the ’ang a it yet?’
Nostrils moaned and grabbed at his side.
‘Pick ’im up, fellas. I’m gunna teach ’im a lesson. I don’t reckon ’e’ll
be forgettin’ this one in a while.’
Once Nostrils was on his feet, Barlow positioned himself in front of
him, only inches from his face.
‘Now… this ’ere is lesson number two. When playin’ from behind,
yer’ve gotta remember ta punch.’
A devastating right cross connected with Nostrils’ jaw.
Crack!
Instantly, Nostrils’ feet gave way and he dropped to the ground.
Barlow barked instructions.
‘Pick ’im up!’
‘Ya know, this is fun,’ he continued. ‘Maybe I orta take up teachin’
full time.’
Gallantly, Nostrils raised his head, then spat a wad of blood into the
face in front him.