‘Yer forgettin’ one thing, Jimmy,’ Nostrils slurred through a swollen
lip. ‘Yer gotta be able ta read, if yer thinkin’ a teachin’.’
Barlow took a step back and wiped his face clean.
‘I see we got a trouble-maker in the class, fellas,’ he said. ‘Disruptin’
all the others who are tryin’ ta learn. Put ’im on the trolley. I think it’s
about time we learned ’im some manners.’
Suddenly I wished I’d gone for help. Lying there in the wet grass, I
told myself, over and over to move, but it was as if my body was
frozen stiff.
While Nostrils lay unmoving on the trolley, Barlow produced
something from inside his coat. The object was long and slender,
maybe two feet in length.
‘I think yer gunna like me little friend, ’ere. I’ve gotta warn ya,
though, he don’t play fair, like me.’
Nostrils made a pathetic attempt to break free.
‘Hold ’im down, fellas,’ ordered Barlow. ‘I’m gonna knee-cap the
bludger.’
Paralysed with fear, my body refused to budge.
I had to do something.
For Christ’s sake, move!
Slowly Barlow moved into position next to the trolley.
He took up a stance, left foot forward, then raised the bar above his
head.
Move, ya sack a shit! Move!
Heads or tails.
Yes or no.
Go or stay.
As Barlow slammed the bar down onto my best friend’s knee, I
buried my face in the grass and screamed.
‘No!…’
How long I lay there, I don’t know, but when I raised up my head
they were gone. Only Nostrils remained.
Again I attempted to lift myself up, but still my limbs refused to
budge.
Far worse than fear, it was shame that paralysed me now.
How could I face him?
‘Charlie!’
The sound of Nostrils’ voice startled me.
‘Charlie?’
‘Over ’ere, Nostrils. I’m on me way.’
It was too late for heroics.
At the main path, I leaned over the trolley and saw a trickle of
blood coming from the corner of Nostrils’ mouth. Through gritted
teeth he sucked in breaths, short and sharp, then, feeling my hands on
his shoulder, he opened his eyes and coughed.
Pink foam bubbled from his mouth.
‘Don’t worry… Charlie.’
He was panting now.
‘I showed ’em… a thing… or two… They won’t… be… botherin’…
us… fer… a while.’
‘Stop jokin’ fer a second, will ya? Are ya bad?’
‘It’s bad… Charlie… I think… they… busted… me knee… and… me
ribs… I can’t… breathe…’
‘Nostrils! Stay with me!’
He was fading, fast.
Quickly, I turned the trolley around, bent low and pushed.
‘Nostrils!’
Left, right, left, right, left, right.
The tiny bubbles around his mouth, although they frightened me,
seemed to give me strength. I imagined myself as strong as ten men. I
locked my arms and heaved.
‘Hang on, Nostrils, we’re nearly there.’
Out on the streets I straightened my back a little and gathered
speed. Wherever possible, corners were to be avoided, so I opted for
the most direct route. From Albert Road I turned right into Gisborne
Street with the Eastern Hill Fire Station on my left.
This was the moment I’d been dreading – Victoria Parade.
‘I’m sorry, Nostrils,’ I hollered, ‘but this is gunna hurt.’
As we rattled across the tram tracks, a strangled groan was forced
from his lips.
Without stopping, I continued on and steered Nostrils towards St
Vincent’s Hospital. The timing could not have been better. Just as the
two of us arrived out front, a nurse in a crisp white uniform pushed
through the front door.
‘If ya don’t mind, sister,’ I yelled. ‘Comin’ through.’
Written in big red letters above the front desk was the word,
CASUALTY. For some reason I’d expected a group of doctors at the
ready, but the only people about were patients, sitting off to my right,
nursing various injuries.
I hadn’t come all this way to wait in a line. Nostrils needed
attention.