Steering the trolley to the centre of the room, I filled my lungs and
screamed.
‘CASUALTY!’
In seconds a doctor and nurse burst through the double doors in
front of me, looking none too pleased.
‘What’s the meaning of…’
Surveying the scene, the doctor seemed to swallow his words. He
dropped to his knees and pressed a stethoscope to Nostrils’ chest.
‘What happened?’
‘We got rolled. It’s ’is ribs and ’is left knee.’
‘How long has he been like this, lad?’
‘A few minutes,’ I replied. ‘Maybe ten. He’ll be awright, won’t ’e?’
‘We’ll do our best. You wait here, lad. I’ll be wanting a word with
you. Get him into theatre, nurse, and call for Doctor Flannigan.’
Sitting there surrounded by white walls and hospital smells, it
reminded me of the time my father was sick. It was the waiting that
was the worst.
Maybe two hours had passed when a copper strolled in and
approached the nurse at the front desk. After they’d spoken for a
while she pointed my way and the copper nodded his head.
I hadn’t expected the law.
‘I understand yer the fella who brought in the young lad on a
trolley?’ he asked.
‘I am, constable.’
‘I’d like a word with ya, then.’
The copper craned his neck towards a couple of chairs off to our
right. Once we were seated, he produced a notebook and the
interview began.
‘Name?’
‘Charlie Feehan.’
‘Address?’
‘Fifteen Cubitt Street, Richmond.’
‘Yer a long way from ’ome, lad. What brings ya out at this time a
night?’
‘Lookin’ fer scraps, we were, constable. That’s why we ’ad the
trolley with us.’
His eyes left the notebook and settled on my face.
‘Scraps, ya say? In Fitzroy?’
‘That’s right. Wood, metal, bottles – anythin’ worth a quid.’
‘I see. And ya say ya were rolled, is that right?’
‘Yes, sir. In the gardens, just down the road.’
‘And what was it ya were lookin’ fer in the gardens? Collectin’ bird
shit, were ya, lad?’
The question caught me off-guard.
‘Short cut, sir.’
Resting back in his chair, the constable eyed me suspiciously then
smiled.
‘And I understand it’s yer mate, on the table in there? Is that right?’
‘Yes.’
‘You’ll ’ave ta forgive me, but I’m a bit slow on the uptake
sometimes. Can ya tell me somethin’ then?’
The smirk on his face told me he was beginning to enjoy it.
‘From what I been told,’ he continued, ‘the fella ya brought in is in
a pretty bad way. How come yer sittin’ ’ere, without a scratch? It
don’t seem ta add up, what with the two of ya bein’ best mates an’
all?’
Explaining myself to a moustache-twirling copper was the last thing
I felt like doing.
‘It ’appened so quickly,’ I told him. ‘It was dark. When we spotted
the others, the two of us took off, and I kept runnin’. When I came
back, it were too late.’
‘So ya saw the others, then? How many did ya count?’
‘Six.’
‘Six? Are ya familiar with any of ’em?’
‘Like I said, constable – it were dark.’
‘It’s a serious complaint yer makin’, lad.’
‘I think yer mistaken, sir. Ya’d better check them notes. I never
made a complaint. I only brought me mate in fer attention.’
Not before time, the doctor appeared from behind the double doors.
‘How is ’e, doctor?’ I asked, jumping from my chair. ‘He’ll be
awright, won’t ’e?’
‘He’s going to be sore for quite a while, but he’ll be all right. He’s as
strong as an ox. You must be Charlie, are you, lad?’
‘Yes, doctor.’
‘He was asking for you, before he went under. I’ll need to contact
his parents. Do you know the address, Charlie?’
‘Yes, sir.’
‘Right, then. I take it you’ve finished with the lad, constable? Come
this way, Charlie.’s