CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
After everything that had happened, I could not bring myself to face
Mr and Mrs Heath. I’d told enough lies for one night.
So, after I’d given the doctor Nostrils’ address, I left the hospital,
scratch free, and headed towards Richmond. Walking the deserted
streets alone, I was soon overcome by violent waves of nausea. As a
horrible burning sensation rose up into my throat, I searched for a
lamppost, grabbed hold of it and spewed a foul yellow mixture into
the gutter.
It was after midnight by the time I arrived home. Exhausted, I kicked
off my boots and slipped quietly into bed.
The next morning appeared, at first, no different to any other. I
rolled onto my side and saw a young man in the mould on my wall,
his left leg severed above the knee.
Nostrils!
Slowly the pieces from last night began to fall into place.
Today was Saturday, and Nostrils, Richmond Hill’s new centre-halfforward, would not be taking the field.
Hearing the sound of laughter, I slipped out of bed, picked up my
boots and made my way to the kitchen. At the table, Ma was busy
feeding Jack some bread and jam.
‘Ma?’
I was stunned.
Seeing her face, powder-free, the boots slipped from my hand and
fell to the ground with a thud.
‘I scrub up awright fer an old boiler, don’t ya reckon?’
Speechless, I stood for a while staring back at her rosy red cheeks.
‘Is it really you, Ma?’
‘Course it’s me, Charlie. Who were ya expectin’ ta be sittin’ down
fer breakfast, Dame Nellie Melba?’
‘Ya look beautiful, Ma. Really beautiful.’
‘Thank you, Charlie.’
With Jack in her arms, she rose from her chair, took a piece of
bread and popped it into my mouth.
‘Hang on a jiff,’ I protested. ‘Where are ya goin’? I ain’t finished
lookin’.’
‘Come with me, Charlie,’ she replied. ‘There’s somethin’ I want ya ta
see.’
As we made our way to the yard, Harry jumped from his pen, ready
for round two. When he saw that Ma was with me, he slowed to a
waddle and brushed himself against her leg.
‘What is it ya want ta show me, Ma?’ I asked.
‘I’ve been waitin’ all mornin’ fer this,’ she smiled. ‘Here, ’ang on ta
Jack fer a bit.’
After handing me Jack, she turned then picked up the tin of white
powder she’d left sitting beside the back door.
‘I don’t reckon I’ll be needin’ this any more,’ she said, removing the
lid.
Ceremoniously, she held the tin aloft, walked over to the dam and
emptied it in.
‘There ya go, Harry, me luv. It’s all yers.’