CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
Back at Cubitt Street, after another training session at Yarra Park, I
said goodbye to Mr Redmond and made my way through our front
gate. The sweet sound of music was playing inside.
‘I’m ’ome, Ma,’ I yelled, pushing through the door. ‘Got a couple a
rabbits fer ya.’
‘In ’ere, Charlie. We’ve a visitor.’
The face that greeted me in the living room, dare I say it, was even
more beautiful than my Ma’s.
‘Alice?’
‘Hello, Charlie.’
‘But… what?…’
As I stood there, opened-mouthed, Ma rose from her chair and took
the rabbits from my hand. ‘Ya never told me ya ’ad a new friend,
Charlie,’ she smiled. ‘And such a pretty one at that. How about I make
us all a cup a tea?’
Not surprisingly, I was lost for words.
What was Alice Cornwall doing in my house?
Alice Cornwall hated my guts.
As she stepped towards me, I took a step back.
‘I know what ya did, Charlie,’ she said softly, ‘and I wanted ta thank
ya, in person.’
‘But how did ya…?’
‘It wasn’t hard. I asked around. Ya’d be surprised how many people
know ya in Richmond.’
Blushing, she lifted the lid on the cardboard box in her hands and
pushed it under my nose.
‘I know it’s not much,’ she said, ‘but me and me dad wanted ya ta
’ave these.’
Inside the box were four of the biggest cream buns I’d ever seen.
This time I knew exactly what to say.
‘Struth, they’re monsters. What d’ya call ’em?’
Alice Cornwall threw me a smile and I melted.
‘We call ’em cream buns, Einstein.’
At that moment, Ma returned to the living room with the tea. From
the look on her face, I could tell she was enjoying the company.
‘What say we ’ave another listen ta that record, eh Alice?’
‘That’d be nice, Mrs Feehan. ’Ere, sit yerself down and I’ll put it on
fer ya.’
Quite clearly, Ma was beside herself.
‘Did ya ’appen to know, Charlie,’ she said, pouring the tea, ‘that me
and Alice ’ave somethin’ in common?’
‘Is that right, Ma. And what would that be?’
‘It just so ’appens that Alice loves ta dance.’
Right then, the strangest thing happened. A vision of my father
appeared in the living room as clear as Ma was sitting in the chair
opposite. Standing near the fireplace, he was, with one arm resting on
the mantel. He raised his eyebrows then smiled.
‘Giddy-up, Charlie,’ he winked.
Then he was gone.
If I’d had any doubts as to whether my Ma had been cured of her
‘condition’ then I needn’t have feared. She was unstoppable. While she
and Alice took it in turns to replay the record, she was barely able to
keep her trap shut.
Eleven times they played the record.
I’m forever blowing bubbles,
Pretty bubbles in the air…
The way they talked, I had Buckley’s of getting a word in, so
instead I set about trying to solve one of life’s more serious dilemmas.
How on earth was I going to fit a cream bun the size of a house
brick into my mouth, without making a mess?
Somehow I managed.
During the eleventh encore, I sensed that Alice was beginning to
tire of the continuous stream of tiny bubbles being blown around our
living room. So, during a rare lapse in the conversation, I called an
end to the afternoon’s festivities, and somehow managed to steer Alice
towards the front door. Once there, she thanked my Ma and promised
a return visit as soon as she could.
On the verandah I donned my cap then pointed to the gate.
‘Would ya let me walk ya home, Alice?’ I asked.
‘It’s a bit outta ya way, ain’t it, Charlie?’ she replied.
‘As a matter a fact, I’m ’eadin’ that way meself. I’ve gotta pay
someone a visit.’
Suddenly there were daggers in her eyes.
‘Don’t worry, Alice. It ain’t that kind a visit. Anyway, I could do
with a walk after that cream bun. I’m in trainin’, did ya know?’
‘Trainin’? Fer what?’
‘Runnin’. I’m entered in a mile race at Ballarat in a couple a weeks.’
Not long into our walk my words began to come easily. In a way,
Alice reminded me of Nostrils. Like him, she never pushed things. She
had a way of listening, as if the very thing you were saying was
feeding her, nourishing her in some way. And when she spoke, it was
so infectious, I found myself wanting to tell her stuff in return –
important stuff – stuff that meant a thing or two.
At the corner of Victoria Parade and Brunswick Street the two of us
stopped to say goodbye.