‘Ya know… Ma’ll come lookin’ fer ya if ya don’t come and visit ’er
again,’ I said.
‘I’m sure she will, Charlie. But don’t worry, I’ll be by again. Only,
can ya do me a favour?’
‘A course, Alice. Anythin’.’
‘Could ya per’aps think about addin’ somethin’ new ta yer record
collection?’
‘Good idea, Alice. I’ll see what I can do.’
As she went to leave she turned as if she’d suddenly remembered
something.
‘I ’ope yer mate’s awright, Charlie. It’s a cryin’ shame… He sure
could play.’
Once again, white walls and hospital smells greeted me as I stepped
into the casualty at St Vincent’s Hospital. This time there was a nurse
stationed at the front desk.
‘I’m ’ere ta see Norman Heath,’ I said.
Behind the counter, the nurse ran her finger down a list of names
until she found ‘H’.
‘Haynes… Hanniberry… Heaney…’
Finally her finger stopped.
‘Here we go… Heath, Norman. Ward Six, third floor.’
As I made my way towards another desk on the third floor, the
events from the previous night came flooding back. I remembered the
pink bubbles around Nostrils’ mouth, his strangled groan as we
crossed the tram tracks on Victoria Parade. And I remembered me, his
mate – scratch free.
Seeing me approach, the duty nurse rose to attention then moved
out from behind the desk until she was blocking my path.
Her white dress and cap indicated that she was someone trained in
tending the sick, but the way she stood there, arms folded, she could
well have passed for a Goodwood Street heavy.
I approached with caution.
‘I’m here ta see Norman Heath, sister,’ I said politely.
‘He’s just ’ad visitors. Unless you’re family, you won’t be going any
further, I’m afraid.’
‘Me name’s Charlie Heath, sister. I’m ’is brother.’
She studied me up close, searching for clues.
‘His brother, eh?’
‘That’s right,’ I lied. ‘I’m the lucky one – didn’t get the nose, thank
God.’
‘Hmmm… All right, then, you can go through. Bed Nine, ’e’s in.
You’ve only five minutes, though. And don’t think I won’t be
counting.’
‘Thank you, sister.’
Strolling through the centre of the room in my brown coat and pants,
I suddenly felt out of place. Apart from the heads resting on the
pillows, everything in Ward Six was white: the beds, the sheets, the
walls, and the floors.
At a guess, there were perhaps ten beds lined up on either side of
me, each of them exactly the same distance apart. Even the white
clipboards, hanging over the metal frames at the end of each bed,
were perfectly aligned, courtesy, I dare say, of the sister in charge.
I found the silence in Ward Six unsettling.
It wasn’t that I wished anyone ill health, but in a room full of sick
people I’d expected one of them at least would be screaming or crying
with pain. Instead, all twenty patients lay quietly in their beds like
ghosts.
As a visitor, presumably in good health, I suddenly felt the urge to
cough.
Bed Nine was located towards the end of the row on my left.
While Nostrils lay there sleeping, I crept slowly forward and set
about surveying the damage.
His left leg was slightly raised, resting on something hidden beneath
the blankets. From the thigh down to the calf, a plaster cast, open at
the top, acted like a cradle underneath his leg, for the purpose of
keeping it straight. Spots of blood were visible on the wad of
bandages around his knee.
Further up, there were bandages around his ribs, too. Somewhere
underneath the blankets, a plastic tube pierced his side. I followed its
length and saw that it ran into a bottle hanging from the side of his
bed.
In the bottle was an inch or so of pink foam.
Gently, I reached out and touched Nostrils’ arm.
‘Nostrils,’ I said softly. ‘It’s Charlie.’
Opening his eyes, even a little way, seemed a struggle. When he
saw it was me, he shifted a little higher on the pillow and grabbed at
his ribs in pain.