‘Charlie,’ he whispered. ‘Ya took yer time comin’ ta visit, didn’t ya?’
‘Yeah, sorry. Thought I’d let ya settle in first. How are ya, Nostrils?’
‘I’ve been better, I’ll give ya the nod. Hand me that glass a water,
will ya? I’m as dry as a hotel gone six o’clock.’
Even in distress, Nostrils found a reason to joke. Suddenly I could
no longer hide my shame.
‘I’m sorry, Nostrils,’ I said, handing him the water. ‘I’m real sorry.’
‘What are ya sorry about, Charlie?’
‘I’m sorry I left ya like that. It’s some mate I turned out ta be. I
should a listened ta ya. You was right, Nostrils. So was me mum. It’s
all gettin’ too dangerous. As soon as ya get outta ’ere, I’m gunna join
ya at Rosella’s. I’m gunna do somethin’ respectable.’
‘Don’t go blamin’ yerself, Charlie. It’s me own fault fer slippin’ over.
There ain’t no point the two of us bein’ laid up in ’ere… Anyway, I
don’t reckon I could stand ya lyin’ beside me all day. Ya’d drive me
nuts, ya would.’
‘I never should a left ya, Nostrils.’
‘Flamin’ ’eck, would ya stop blabbin’. Ya supposed ta be cheerin’ me
up, ain’t ya? Come on, what ’ave ya been doin’ these last few days?’
A tear rolled down my face as I looked at his busted knee.
What could I possibly say?
It was Nostrils who was the champion. He was something special, a
freak. It should have been me lying there, not him.
‘Come on, Charlie,’ he said again. ‘What ’ave ya been doin’? How’s
the trainin’?’
With the sleeve of my coat I wiped away the tears.
‘Everythin’s on track.’
‘That’s beaut. Ya must be flyin’ by now. Ya’ll murder ’em, Charlie.’
Suddenly Nostrils was all smiles.
‘He ’asn’t got yer on the two effs again, ’as ’e?’
‘A course. There ain’t nothin’ surer. He’s got me rabittin’, too.’
‘Rabbittin’?’
‘Yeah, down at Yarra Park. Ain’t caught one yet, but I’m gettin’
close.’
Far too soon, the sister appeared and pointed to her watch.
‘Ya’d better go, Charlie. She’s a right boiler, that one.’
‘Awright, Nostrils. Are ya up fer a visit tomorrow?’
‘Too right, I am. I’m bored outta me brain, in ’ere. I’ll see ya soon,
Charlie. And stop blamin’ yerself. It weren’t yer fault.’
A dose of Norman Heath – there was no better medicine for raising
one’s spirits.
Where it came from I do not know, but as I strode back towards
Richmond, I felt the need for a song.
‘I’m forever blowin’ bubbles,
Pretty bubbles in the air.’
Admittedly, I hadn’t much of an ear for music, but as I arrived at
Squizzy’s place after the eighth rendition, parts of the song were
sounding surprisingly tuneful.
A few seconds after knocking on the door, the metal plate slid open
once again.
‘Yeah?’
‘Knuckles, it’s me, Charlie.’
As he opened the door, Knuckles flashed me a smile.
‘How are ya, this fine evenin’, Charlie?’
‘Fightin’ fit, Knuckles. What about yerself?’
‘Couldn’t be better, lad.’
Before he made to leave, I grabbed at his sleeve and stopped him.
‘Can ya tell me where Dolly is, Knuckles?’ I asked. ‘She ain’t been
around of late.’
Knuckles glanced over his shoulder down the hall then leaned my
way.
‘Er… Squiz and Doll… they… er…’
‘They what?’
‘They had a tiff, Charlie. She packed her bags and cleared out.’
‘He kicked her out, didn’t he?’
‘It ain’t my business, lad, and it ain’t yers either. Stop pokin’ yer
nose where it don’t belong.’
That was the end of it. Shattered, I followed Knuckles down the hall
to the office and stepped in after him.
Half a dozen men were gathered in the office, Dasher and Squizzy
among them. They were drinking a toast.
‘And ’ere’s ta the Richmond push,’ roared Squizzy, holding his
whisky aloft. ‘Yas all did us proud last night, lads.’
As one, the others raised their glasses in response.
‘Cheers!’ came the reply.
After the toast, Squizzy spotted me at the door.
‘’Ere’s me speedster, now. Come in lad, we’re celebratin’. D’ya fancy
a spot a whisky?’
‘No thanks, Mr Taylor.’
‘Knuckles! Get the lad a spot a whisky.’