By the look of him, Squizzy had been drinking a while. He drained
the last of his glass then slammed it down onto the desk.
‘Come on, Knuckles,’ he slurred. ‘A man ain’t a camel, ya know.’
While he waited for a refill, Squizzy drew my attention to the
newspapers scattered across the desk.
‘Ain’t no one gunna mess with Squizzy Taylor, lad. ‘’Ave ya copped
the papers, yet?’
‘No, Mr Taylor, I ain’t.’
As Knuckles handed me a glass, I stepped forward and read the
headlines.
Guns bark in Fitzroy!
‘And what about this one,’ said Squizzy, holding a paper aloft.
‘Popgunitis! That’s me favourite. I’ll ’ave ta get me photograph with
that one.’
Standing there, in the room full of men, I began to feel
uncomfortable.
‘Mr Taylor,’ I said. ‘If ya don’t mind, I wanna talk ta ya about the
liquor run, last night.’
Annoyed by my lack of interest in the headlines, Squizzy threw the
paper onto the desk then considered me with as much excitement you
would a blowfly with a belly full of maggots.
‘I’m glad ya reminded me, lad. I clear forgot with all the excitement
from the shootin’. A fella from Goodwood Street called… somethin’
about a trolley?’
‘We got rolled in the gardens, comin’ back from the job, Mr Taylor.
I used it ta take me mate Norman ta the ’ospital. He’s busted up, real
bad.’
I hated having to explain myself in front of the others. Suddenly, as
quick as someone flicking a switch, Squizzy turned nasty.
‘To tell ya the truth, lad, I couldn’t give a rat’s arse about yer mate.
Get that trolley back where it belongs. Now clear off, we’re celebratin’
’ere, and yer beginnin’ ta get on me nerves.’
Even though my back was to them, I could hear the men behind me
laughing. Full of rage, I dropped my eyes to the ground and saw my
shiny black boots. Right then, something clicked inside my head.
Everything became clear. Silently I left the office and made my way to
the laundry. After changing into my father’s old boots, I strode back
down the hall. I squeezed passed Knuckles at the office door and
placed the boots on the table, right under Squizzy’s nose.
‘And what the bloody ’ell is this?’ he asked.
‘It’s yer boots, Mr Taylor… Ya know, it’s funny, but they never
really fit me in the first place.’
Squizzy exploded. From a desk drawer he produced a silver
handgun and pointed it between my eyes.
‘Squiz!’
Suddenly, Dasher Heeney was standing beside me.
‘C’mon, Squiz, he’s only a lad.’
Despite the wildness in Squizzy’s eyes, I felt remarkably calm.
Without moving an inch, I waited for the flip of the coin.
Heads or tails.
Yes or no.
Go or stay.
In a split second, Squizzy shifted the silver barrel to the left of my
head and fired.
When I opened my eyes only two people remained standing.
Me and Squizzy Taylor.
‘I’ll give yer one thing, lad,’ he said. ‘Fer a young ’un, yer’ve got a
set a balls on ya. Now get out, before me aim improves.’
With my heart racing, I followed Knuckles down the hall then
stopped. Looking back, I saw Squizzy’s head poking out the door, an
idiotic grin plastered across his face.
‘What was ya expectin’, ya little runt? Did ya want me ta send yer
mate a bunch a flowers or somethin’?’
Out in the street, there was nothing to do but run.
With a ringing in my ears I headed west at such a speed the streets
of Richmond rolled into one. It seemed like forever since I’d run like
this – without a purpose – without a list of names, or a parcel to
deliver.
As I hurtled up Punt Road, I felt the city lights beckoning once
again. I felt the prickle of my skin and the sweat on my brow.
When I made it to the city, I began whooping and hollering, like a
mad thing. I dodged drunks and played with cars, I jumped over
puddles and raced alongside grinding trams.
For the first time in a long while, I felt free again, as if a huge
weight had been lifted from my shoulders.
My days running for Squizzy Taylor were over.
Now I was running for me.