CHAPTER NINETEEN
By the end of my second week’s training, the rabbits at Yarra Park had
an extra reason to be scared. I was flying. Besides the rabbiting, twice
a week Mr Redmond and I caught the tram to St Kilda beach. While
the children played games near the water’s edge, Mr Redmond had me
running barefoot in the soft sand beside the foreshore. Stripped to my
knickerbockers and singlet, I must have looked a sight to those who
stopped to watch.
Two trees on the foreshore, some ninety yards apart, acted as
markers. My instructions were simple enough – sprint up, turn, then
jog back.
I was useless at first. After my first few sprints, a small crowd had
gathered beside Mr Redmond as I struggled in the sand. Some of
them, I noticed, were laughing.
‘C’mon, Charlie,’ barked Mr Redmond. ‘Sprint!’
Soon the others were joining in.
‘C’mon, lad, ya’ll be goin’ backwards before long.’
I didn’t mind the jeering.
In fact, if anything, it made me more determined. And the burning
pain in my legs, instead of fighting it, I welcomed it and used it to
make me strong.
While Clarrie busied himself chasing seagulls, I continued running.
Sprint, jog, sprint, jog.
‘Fink about what yer doin’, Charlie,’ called Mr Redmond. ‘Ya ain’t
runnin’ the streets now, lad.’
Jogging back to the first marker, I noticed a row of children in front
of Mr Redmond, sitting on the bluestone wall, watching me. A pretty
girl at the end of the line cupped her hand around her mouth and
shouted.
‘C’mon, Charlie. You can do it.’
Sensing a game was about to begin, the others began kicking their
heels playfully against the wall.
‘Yeah, c’mon, Charlie!’
Smiling, I turned at the marker and dropped my eyes.
Go!
Spurred on by the children, I began to shorten my stride. I dug my
toes deep into the shifting sand and pushed.
‘Atta boy, Charlie,’ called Mr Redmond. ‘Now yer finkin’.’
For ten minutes I continued running, each time getting faster and
faster.
Then, one by one the children jumped from the wall, barefoot, and
joined me on the beach. With my training nearly done, I slowed my
pace until there were a dozen of them, chasing behind me, digging
their toes into the sand.
In the weeks leading up to race day, all hell broke loose.
The rival gangs in Richmond and Fitzroy went head to head in a
bloody battle so violent that the sound of gunfire was a regular
occurrence in the streets at night. Each day, it seemed, the front pages
of the newspapers reported a fresh wave of shootings, adding names
to the growing list of those wounded or killed.
They called it the Fitzroy Vendetta.
Gangsterism had arrived.
While those around me drew their curtains and locked their doors, I
continued my nightly runs through the city streets. Running was
everything now, and I would stop for no one. I was invincible.
Still, while my body grew strong something kept nagging away in
my head.
Then one night as I returned home from my run, I suddenly realised
what it was that was troubling me. It was Ma.
I found her in the living room listening to one of the new records I’d
bought. Seeing me, she smiled and craned her head towards the
gramophone in the corner.
‘Ya know, ’andsome, if ya play yer cards right, ya can write yer
name on me dance card, if ya like.’
Without speaking, I went to the gramophone and lifted the needle
from the record.
‘Charlie. What is it?’
‘I need ta talk ta ya, Ma.’
‘A course, what’s up?’
I sat in the chair next to her then shifted forward.
‘I gotta tell ya somethin’, Ma, and I don’t think ya gunna like it… I
ain’t goin’ ta school no more. I’ve been workin’ fer Squizzy Taylor.’
Next to me, Ma dropped her eyes and began studying her shoes.
‘Ma… did ya not hear me? I said I been workin’ fer Squizzy Taylor.’
‘I know what yer been doin’, Charlie. I ain’t daft.’
‘Ya do?… but?…’
‘I know a lot a things, Charlie.’