She turned her face to the fire and ran a finger across the scar
above her left eye.
‘Things ’ave changed,’ she said softly. ‘We’re on our own now,
Charlie. Ain’t nothin’ gunna bring yer father back.’
‘Yer right, Ma. But at least we got each other. First thing after the
race, I’m gunna get me a job at Rosella’s. Somethin’ respectable, like
ya said. Ya’ll see… things’ll be different from now on, Ma, I promise.’
For a few minutes the two of us sat quietly, staring into the fire.
Finally it was Ma who broke the silence.
‘Mrs Redmond tells me yer trainin’ hard for the race?’
‘That’s right, Ma. Mr Redmond’s got me rabbitin’, and runnin’ on
the beach.’
‘Rabbitin’ hey? ’Ave ya got any yet?’
‘Not yet, Ma, but I’m givin’ Clarrie a run fer ’is money, I can tell ya.
Still, it’s a different thing, runnin’ a race.’
‘Ya’ll be right, Charlie. If I were a bettin’ lady, I’d put me money on
yer.’ ‘Ya would?’ ‘Course… Now, how about that dance?’
On the Thursday before we left for Ballarat, I met Alice outside St
Vincent’s Hospital as arranged. When I arrived she was already
standing out the front, a splash of red on an otherwise grey and
dreary canvas. She looked even more beautiful than I’d remembered.
Her hair was gathered at the back, held in place by a tortoise-shell
comb. In her hands she carried an umbrella and a cardboard box.
‘It’s a day fer ducks, I reckon, Charlie,’ she smiled.
‘Yer right there, Alice. How are ya?’
‘All the better fer seein’ you, Charlie.’
Like no one else, Alice Cornwall had a way of making my heart
race. Suddenly, even the simple task of walking seemed a struggle.
‘Are ya awright, Charlie?’ she asked, as we made our way towards
the hospital doors.
‘Ta tell ya the truth, Alice, I’m feelin’ a little faint. I’ve a good mind
ta check meself in ta see a doctor.’
Soon, we arrived on the third floor, Ward Six. With my mind turned
to mush, I’d completely forgotten to warn Alice about Knuckles’ twin
sister manning the desk.
‘Family only,’ she announced, stepping into the corridor.
‘Charlie Heath, sister,’ I said. ‘I’m here ta see Norman.’
Folding her arms, her eyes shifted to Alice.
‘And you are?’
Next to me, my beautiful companion transformed herself into Saint
Alice.
‘Alice Cornwall, sister, I’m Norman’s cousin. I would ’ave come
earlier, but I’ve been flat out carin’ fer me dyin’ Nan.’
Even though I knew it to be a giant fib, I raised my arm up and
placed it gently across her shoulder.
‘God bless you, Alice,’ said the sister. ‘Have you ever thought about
nursing as a profession? It’s girls like you we need.’
‘I ’ave sister. It’s somethin’ I always wanted ta do.’
‘In that case, you can go on through. And take your time, won’t
you.’
As we made our way along Ward Six, Alice flashed me a cheeky
smile.
‘Flamin’ ’eck, Alice,’ I said. ‘Forget about the nursin’. With a heart a
gold like yers, ya’d be better off tryin’ fer the convent.’
At Bed Nine we found Nostrils awake.
‘Hello there,’ he chirped. ‘I see ya brought a visitor with ya,
Charlie?’
‘Norman Heath… I’d like ya ta meet Alice Cornwall.’
Nostrils smiled.
‘Ya ’ave been busy, Charlie. Hello, Alice, it’s nice ta meet ya.’
‘You too, Norman,’ replied Alice. ‘’Ere, I’ve bought somethin’ fer ya.’
Carefully, she placed the cardboard box on his stomach then opened
the lid.
‘Struth, they’re monsters. What d’ya call ’em?’
Alice and I looked at each other and laughed.
‘Ya must be jokin’, Nostrils,’ I said. ‘Ain’t ya never seen a cream bun
before?’
Just as I knew they would, Alice and Nostrils took an instant shine
to each other. For a good half hour the three of us sat talking as if
we’d known each other for years. We could have talked for hours, but
soon Nostrils began to tire.
‘If you two insist on makin’ me laugh,’ he said, grabbing his ribs,
‘I’ll ’ave ta kick ya out. How am I supposed ta get better if yas keep
muckin’ around? Go on, clear off, ya ratbags.’
As I rose from my chair, Nostrils grabbed hold of my arm and
looked at me with heavy eyes.
‘Ya’ll be right, in the race. Yer a freak, Charlie Feehan. Ain’t no one
faster than you. Ya’ll murder ’em. They may as well start engravin’ yer
name on the cup.’