With his hand still on my arm, Nostrils closed his eyes and drifted
off to sleep.
Outside the hospital, as we sheltered from the rain, Alice Cornwall
slipped her arm into mine. Then slowly, she raised herself up and
kissed my cheek.
‘Here,’ she said, slipping an envelope into my coat pocket. ‘I want
ya ta read it when ya get ta Ballarat.’
‘I’ll be runnin’ fer ya, Alice,’ I said.
‘No, Charlie,’ she replied. ‘Don’t run fer me. Run fer yerself.’
Mindful of Mr Redmond’s advice not to overdo it before the big
race, I fought the urge to run, and instead walked at an easy pace
towards home. My preparation for the race could not have been better
– the muscles in my legs were testament to that. Still, each time I
filled my head with a positive thought, some frightening doubt
grabbed hold of it and hit it clear for six. Over and over I imagined
the race at Ballarat – the start, the bends and the finish – until
eventually I found myself outside Porter’s Wood Yard in Church
Street.
Imagine owning a wood yard?
Standing there, staring at the ‘FOR SALE’ sign, a familiar voice
sounded in my head. It was Daisy, the prostitute who lived in our
street. As she spoke to me, everything became clear.
‘Whatever ya do, Charlie,’ she said. ‘Use the money fer somethin’
good… somethin’ good… somethin’ good…’
The next morning, when I woke, there was nothing on my wall – no
dogs, no dragons and no faces. Just mould.
With my bag already packed, I dressed in a clean set of clothes then
slid the box of newspapers out from under the bed. Having not
counted my savings for a while, the envelope felt surprisingly fat. I
opened it and emptied the contents onto the floor. In the time I’d been
working for Squizzy Taylor, my earnings, plus tips, totalled twentythree quid and five bob.
It was a fortune.
Sitting against the bed, the stash reminded me of the play money
my father used to make me, and how I’d pile it into neat rows, always
asking for more.
‘What are ya gunna buy, Charlie?’ he’d ask.
‘I’m gunna buy a horse, Daddy,’ I’d say. ‘A horse and a big silver
cart.’
‘And what else, Charlie? Yer’ve still got more.’
‘Some beer fer you, and a dress fer Ma.’
Twenty-three pounds and five shillings!
It was enough to buy a dozen dresses and more. But this was no
longer a game and I was no longer a boy.
Anyway, my mind was already made up. Quickly I gathered
together the money, placed it back in the envelope and stuffed it
safely into my trouser pocket.
After a breakfast of bread and jam, Ma, Jack and I met the Redmonds
on our front porch.
‘C’mon, Charlie,’ said Mr Redmond. ‘We best get goin’ if we’re ta
make the train.’
When I turned to Ma she was crying.
‘I’ll be right, Ma,’ I said. ‘It’s only fer a night.’
‘I know, I know.’
With Jack between us, she drew me in and squeezed me tight.
‘Yer father’d be so proud of yer, Charlie.’
Over her shoulder I could see Mr Redmond planting kisses on
Clarrie’s snout.
Mrs Redmond looked annoyed.
‘Flamin’ ’eck, Cecil,’ she protested. ‘Anyone’d think ya were married
ta ’im, the way yer carryin’ on. What about me?’
‘Don’t ya worry, luv, I got plenty ta go ’round.’
With the goodbyes complete, Mr Redmond and I gathered our bags
and headed towards Spencer Street Station. Two doors down he
stopped and doubled back to our front gate. The others were still
where we’d left them.
‘Remember ta put ’is coat on ’im if it gets too cold, luv,’ he called to
his wife. ‘It’s the tartan one he likes. Don’t go puttin’ that silly blue
one on ’im, it’ll make ’im scratch.’