CHAPTER TWENTY
Arriving at Spencer Street reminded me of the times my father and I
would come and watch the trains. Even from an early age, I remember
being fascinated by the steam trains, the way they roared to life,
shooting plumes of black smoke from their chimneys like gigantic
beasts.
They terrified me at first. Holding onto my father’s trousers, I’d
poke my head out from between his legs and watch in horror as
people climbed aboard then disappeared into the bowels of the hissing
monster.
It was the stuff of nightmares. Under my blankets at night, I often
found myself back on the platform, running along the line of people
waiting to board. I’d be shouting at them, pleading with them not to
go, but they could not hear. Instead, the monster drew them in and
they went happily, old and young, to what I imagined was a grisly
and gruesome death.
Now, a little braver and somewhat wiser, I stood in that same line
on the platform, wild with excitement. I couldn’t wait to climb aboard
and begin the journey to Ballarat. Except for a weekend at the seaside
in Sandringham, I’d never really ventured far from home.
As the railway porters lugged the bags of the well-to-do up to the
first-class carriages, the station master, in his dark green uniform and
cap, walked in front of us ringing his bell.
‘All aboard to Ballarat… All aboard!’
Even though Ballarat was only a few hours by train, I was so
excited, it was as if the two of us were about to set sail for one of
those distant places I’d read about in my school history book – a place
faraway, where the people wore feathered headdresses and carried
spears.
Next to me, Mr Redmond turned and smiled.
‘This is it, Charlie,’ he said. ‘Are ya ready?’
‘Are ya kiddin’, Mr Redmond? C’mon, if ya don’t hurry up we’ll
miss a window seat.’
With Mr Redmond close behind, I boarded the train and slipped
into a seat beside the window. Inside, the train smelt like varnish. The
seats were slippery leather and the metal luggage racks above our
heads shone a brilliant gold.
Not far to my right, a well-dressed young man removed his hat,
placed a bag on the seat opposite me and clicked it open. With his
back to me, he took something from it then tossed the bag up onto the
rack. When he sat down my eyes were instantly drawn to his lap.
There in front of me was on one of the most beautiful sights I’d ever
seen – a pair of spotless white running spikes.
‘Yer entered in the mile, are ya?’ I asked.
He looked up briefly then returned to inspecting the shoes.
‘That’s right.’
‘Me, too. Mr Redmond ’ere’s me trainer. ’Ave ya got a trainer
yerself?’
‘I’m with the Melbourne Harriers. Have been for three years.’
‘It’s a runnin’ club, is it?’
‘That’s right. I should be up in first class with the others, only some
idiot mixed up my ticket.’
‘I don’t s’pose ya been doin’ any rabbitin’ then?’
‘Excuse me?’
‘Rabbitin’. Mr Redmond ’ere’s ’ad me rabbitin’ down at Yarra Park.
Been runnin’ in the sand as well. Ya know, fer speed.’
‘Speed?’ he laughed. ‘It’s a mile race, not a sprint. Anyone who
knows a thing or two about running knows that it’s distance you need
in a mile – distance, not speed. And Good Lord, no… I certainly
haven’t been rabbiting.’
As the young man went back to inspecting his spikes, I turned to Mr
Redmond who was busy reading the programme.
‘Psst!’ I whispered. ‘When ya say ya did a bit a runnin’, Mr
Redmond… what exactly did ya mean?’
Before raising his eyes, Mr Redmond put a finger on the programme
to mark his spot.
‘Huh?’
‘When ya say ya did a bit a runnin’,’ I repeated. ‘What exactly did
ya mean?’
Mr Redmond looked beyond the window as if he was remembering
a time long ago.
‘It were a bloke by the name a Piggy Devlin who got me runnin’,’ he
said.
‘He were yer trainer, were ’e?’
‘Nah, ’e were the school bully. Used ta chase me ’ome from school.’
‘Hang on a jiff, I thought ya said ya ran serious?’
‘It were serious, Charlie. He would a killed me ’ad ’e caught me.’ As
a whistle sounded outside, I left Mr Redmond and poked my head out
the window for a look. While a small crowd of people waved goodbye
to their loved ones, the stationmaster produced a white flag and
began waving it in the air. Then, as if the train had a mind of its own,
it tooted loudly then lurched itself forward. We were away.
When I pulled my head inside, no one seemed the slightest bit
interested in our departure, except for a couple of children a few rows
away. Next to me, Mr Redmond lifted his right leg over his left and
leaned my way.