‘It says ’ere that yer ta run a heat in the mornin’,’ he whispered.
‘There’s five heats all up and the first three place-getters from each
move inta the final in the afternoon… let’s see… that makes it a field
a fifteen… well, fourteen plus yerself.’
On the seat opposite, the young man began to snigger.
‘Somethin’ funny?’ asked Mr Redmond.
‘Yeah. I was just wondering how it is you get the rabbit to run
around the track without nicking off?’
‘Ignore ’im, Charlie.’
‘I’ve seen some of those rabbits up in Ballarat, you know, and I can
tell you, they’re not as smart as your city bunnies. Maybe you should
have brought one up with you. A specialist miler, perhaps.’
Mr Redmond was all set to go on with it when a man in a green
uniform pushed through the carriage door.
‘Tickets, please! Tickets!’
While the others searched for their tickets, I turned my head and
gazed out the window. At a guess we’d been travelling for a good halfhour, with the city now well behind us. Except for the occasional
shack, there was nothing to see except cows and sheep and paddocks.
It was a far cry from the streets of Richmond where the houses were
packed so tight it felt as if the air was being squeezed from your
lungs. But I couldn’t imagine running in a place with nothing to see –
a place without lights and trams, grog joints and brothels.
True, I lived in a city that was home to every imaginable evil, but
for me, there was always something else.
For me there was always hope.
Some time later the landscape began to change. Through the
window I spotted a couple of the ‘digs’ I’d read about in school. Not so
long ago, thousands of people had flocked to Ballarat to dig up the
earth in search of gold. Of those thousands, only a few were lucky
enough to strike it rich.
The massive holes with the dirt piled up next to them looked like
the work of some giant rabbit. I could not believe that someone had
dug into the land like that, bored into it, day after day.
I tried to picture the men who’d dug the holes – men with blistered
hands and broken backs. What had driven them to such lengths?
Looking out across the fields I suddenly realised what it was. These
men were just like me. These men had dreamed of something more,
something better.
Even just a slice.
Soon enough, other things began to creep into the landscape outside:
a bluestone fence, compliments of a convict gang; a man on a horse
and cart; livestock; houses and church spires. Finally, we had arrived
in Ballarat.
As the train screeched its way to a halt, the young man opposite
rose to his feet and retrieved his bag.
‘I suppose I should be thankful in a way,’ he said.
Mr Redmond stiffened.
‘And why is that, son?’
‘You’re one less runner I’ll have to worry about. See you at the
track.’
By the time we stepped onto the crowded platform, the young
man’s comments seemed like a distant memory. My eyes began
searching the faces of the people around me. I sharpened my ears for
new sounds and sniffed at strange smells. As we pushed through the
crowd I suddenly remembered the wad of money in my trouser
pocket. Quickly I shot my hand down and gripped the envelope tight.
Out in the street, Mr Redmond took a map from his bag and
straightened it.
‘Awright then, Charlie,’ he said. ‘We’re lookin’ fer a Mrs Pickwick’s
lodgin’ ’ouse in George Street. It’s this way, I think. C’mon, follow me
and we’ll get ourselves settled in.’
After a short walk, we arrived at the lodging house in George Street
and were greeted by a jolly lady in a floral dress. She had eyes like an
owl – big and brown and wide.
‘Evenin’,’ she smiled, opening the door. ‘Ya must be Mr Redmond.’
‘That I am, Mrs Pickwick. And this ’ere is Charlie.’
‘Hello, Charlie. Welcome ta Ballarat. Everythin’s ready fer ya. Come
on in and we’ll get ya settled.’
At the end of the hallway, Mrs Pickwick stood beside a bedroom
door and ushered us in.
‘There ya go,’ she smiled. ‘It ain’t nothin’ fancy but ya’ll find it’s
nice and clean. How about I leave ya to it. And if there’s anythin’ ya
need, make sure ta sing out. I’ve a spot a dinner on the go. Should be
ready fer ya, say, around six.’
‘Thank you, Mrs Pickwick,’ said Mr Redmond. ‘It’s a lovely ’ome ya
’ave. Me and Charlie’ll be fine.’
From the way she smiled, I could tell that Mrs Pickwick, like my
Ma, prided herself on a clean house. Our room was a decent size with
two beds on either side. On each of the beds, she’d left two white
towels folded so neatly it seemed a shame to disturb them.
‘Go on then, Charlie,’ said Mr Redmond. ‘Take yer pick.’
I picked the bed near the window and dropped my bag on top of
the mattress.