‘If ya don’t mind, Mr Redmond,’ I joked, ‘I’ll take the one with the
view.’
‘Awright, Charlie. Get yer things sorted. There’s somethin’ I want ta
show ya, before it gets dark.’
My things, as Mr Redmond called them, consisted of a toothbrush, a
clean pair of socks, a singlet, fresh underwear and some short pants. I
transferred them to the top drawer of the bedside table then sat on the
bed and waited. When I looked across the room Mr Redmond was
sitting on his bed next to his open bag.
‘There’s just somethin’ else before we get goin’, Charlie,’ he smiled.
‘Come over ’ere… A few a the neighbours chipped in ta buy ya
somethin’. They ain’t as flash as that fella’s on the train, but I’m
thinkin’ they’ll take a few seconds off yer time.’
As I sat on the bed next to him, Mr Redmond handed me a pair of
black running spikes.
‘They’re leather ones, Charlie,’ he said. ‘Light as a feather. Polished
’em meself, I did. Go on, ’ave a whiff, ya can still smell the nugget.’
Lost for words, I cradled the spikes in my hands so delicately, it was
as if Mr Redmond had just handed me a bird with a broken wing.
‘I don’t know what ta say, Mr Redmond,’ I managed. ‘Me very own
spikes.’
‘Ya can thank me later, Charlie. C’mon, put ’em away, we’ve gotta
go.’
Out in the front garden, Mrs Pickwick was bent over the vegie
patch, pulling up tonight’s dinner. When she saw us she straightened
up then wiped her hands on her apron.
‘Off already, are yas?’ she asked.
‘Just fer a bit,’ answered Mr Redmond. ‘Never fear, Mrs Pickwick,
we’ll be back fer dinner.’
Walking down George Street, while Mr Redmond studied the map, I
lifted my hands up and smelt the nugget on my fingers. It made me
think of Dolly – the way she had lifted her wrist to my nose after
spraying it with one of Madame Ghurka’s latest scents.
‘Where are ya takin’ us, Mr Redmond?’
‘Ya’ll see, Charlie. It’s only another block.’
The streets of Ballarat told a different story to the one I was
accustomed to. The air was crisp and clean and the people, whenever
they passed, smiled and said hello. In Ballarat there was room to
move. The streets seemed wider, less crowded, giving me the
impression that things were moving more slowly.
As we turned another corner, Mr Redmond folded his map and
tucked it into a pocket.
‘’Ere we go, Charlie – Centennial Park.’
Looking west across the horizon, a dying sun took its last few
stubborn breaths then finally surrendered to the night. On the oval, a
few runners were packing up their gear and heading home.
‘C’mon, Charlie,’ said Mr Redmond. ‘I want ya ta walk a lap with
me.’
I don’t know why I did it, but as I followed Mr Redmond out onto
the running track, I shortened my stride to avoid stepping on the
white lines that marked the lanes. Somehow it didn’t seem right.
‘Should ya be steppin’ on them lines like that, Mr Redmond?’ I
pointed out.
When he saw what I was up to, he laughed.
‘It’s awright, Charlie. We’re not ’ere fer a game a hopscotch. Ya can
step on the lines, no ones gunna kick ya off.’
I ignored him and kept stepping between the lines until the two of
us were standing in the inside lane. Lane one.
Mr Redmond put a hand on my shoulder then pointed to our feet.
‘D’ya see where we’re standin’, Charlie?’ he asked.
‘It’s lane number one, Mr Redmond.’
‘That’s right, lane one. C’mon, let’s walk a lap.’
Striding across the soft grass, Mr Redmond continued talking.
‘Right ’ere, Charlie, this is where I want ya ta be. If ya ’ave ta go
wide yer ta do it in the straight. But whatever ya do, don’t swing wide
on the bends. Ya got that?’
‘I understand, Mr Redmond.’
‘Tell me what I said, so I know ya got it.’
‘If I ’ave ta go wide, do it in the straight, but stay on the inside on
the bends.’
‘Good lad… Now there’s likely ta be a bit a rough stuff durin’ the
race. The bigger blokes may knock yer round. But don’t let ’em scare
ya, Charlie. Just stay outta trouble as best ya can. And remember,
don’t swing wide on the bends.’
Soon enough we were back where we started.
‘Four a those, Charlie,’ said Mr Redmond. ‘Four laps. Ya could do it
in yer sleep.’