CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
When we arrived back at the lodging house just before six o’clock,
Mrs Pickwick had the table set ready for dinner.
‘I’m hopin’ the two a ya like rabbit stew,’ she said, bringing three
plates to the table. ‘It’s not somethin’ ya’d be used ta, bein’ from the
city an’ all.’
Mr Redmond flashed me a wink then smiled.
‘It’s a real treat, Mrs Pickwick. And the vegetables… I noticed ya
grow yer own?’
‘That I do, Mr Redmond. The vegie patch was me late ’usband’s
pride and joy. He ’ad a thing fer growin’ ’is own – ’specially tomatoes.
Loved ’is tomatoes, ’e did.’
‘Well, I ain’t seen a finer patch than the one yer keepin’, Mrs
Pickwick. Yer’ve a green thumb on yer, that’s fer sure.’
I don’t deny that having a green thumb was an admirable quality in
a woman, and something to be proud of, but the way Mrs Pickwick
blushed, it was as if she’d just been complimented on the colour of her
eyes. With her heart aflutter, she began patting her chest then raised
her free hand up to a mop of grey hair and smoothed it flat.
‘Mr Redmond, yer too kind.’
‘Credit where it’s due, Mrs Pickwick. Credit where it’s due… By the
way, I read in yer advertisement that yer’ve an interest in the readin’
of palms?’
‘That I ’ave, Mr Redmond. I’ve been studyin’ the art a fortune tellin’
in me spare time. I’m only an amateur, mind you, but I’ve already a
list a clients that see me regular.’
Suddenly I remembered the wad of money in my pocket.
‘D’ya think ya could read me palm, Mrs Pickwick?’ I asked
excitedly, shooting my left hand across the table.
It was the first time I’d spoken since we’d sat down for dinner.
‘I don’t know, Charlie,’ she said. ‘Are ya sure it’s a good idea?
Yer’ve the big race tomorrow.’
‘C’mon,’ I said. ‘It’s a bit a fun, is all.’
Beside me, Mr Redmond shrugged.
‘Don’t s’pose it’d hurt,’ he said. ‘That’s if yer willin’ a course, Mrs
Pickwick.’
Mrs Pickwick placed her knife and fork on her plate then
straightened herself in her chair.
‘Awright then, but I’ll need yer right ’and, Charlie.’
I too dropped a knife onto my plate then offered her my hand.
She took it, then studied my palm while she sucked at a scrap of
food that had lodged itself between her teeth. After only a few
minutes she lifted her head and looked at me with her wide brown
eyes.
‘I’m sorry fer yer loss, Charlie,’ she said softly. ‘I see yer’ve ’ad a
rough trot these past few months.’
If it wasn’t for the tabletop, I reckon my jaw would have dropped
all the way to the floor.
‘But, Mrs Pickwick… how did ya…?’
‘It’s in yer ’and, Charlie. Once ya know what ta look fer, it’s no
different ta readin’ a book.’
‘Struth… And what about the race, Mrs Pickwick?’
‘Hmmm, let’s see.’
This time Mrs Pickwick put her hand in mine and closed her eyes.
‘Hmmm.’
‘What is it? D’ya see somethin’?’
Before answering she squeezed my hand a little harder.
‘I see somethin’ awright, Charlie, but there’s no faces.’
‘There’s not? What is there, then?’
‘Runnin’ shoes.’
‘Runnin’ shoes?’
‘Yeah, runnin’ shoes. A pair a white and a pair a black… Hang on a
jiff, there’s more.’
‘What is it?’ I asked.
Before she was able to give me more, Mrs Pickwick shook her head
then released her grip.
‘Nah, it’s gone,’ she replied, opening her eyes. ‘I’m sorry, Charlie.
That’s it, I’m afraid.’
‘What d’ya mean, that’s it?’
‘I’ve lost it, Charlie. It can ’appen sometimes.’
‘Can’t ya try again?’
‘I’m afraid not, Charlie. They’ve told me everythin’ they want ya ta
hear.’
‘They?’
‘The spirit world, Charlie. It ain’t polite ta be askin’ fer more. That’s
it.’
‘But?’
‘Charlie!’