Beside me, Mr Redmond put his hand on my arm.
‘There ain’t no more, Charlie,’ he said. ‘C’mon, eat yer dinner.’
As I picked at a rabbit bone, I tried to make sense of what I’d just
been told. Mrs Pickwick hadn’t told me anything I didn’t already
know. In a foot race of this kind, there were bound to be running
shoes, some black and some white. So, just who those shoes belonged
to was anyone’s guess.
After dinner, Mr Redmond and I excused ourselves then headed off to
our room for an early night. Stripped to my singlet and underwear, I
placed my new running shoes under the blankets then dived in beside
them.
‘Get yerself a good night’s sleep, Charlie,’ said Mr Redmond, from
the other side of the room. ‘Just remember all the work ya done.
Yer’ve made me real proud these last few weeks, as if ya were me own
son. Yer father’d be mighty proud, too, I know ’e would. Good night,
Charlie, I’ll see ya in the mornin’.’
With the smell of Nugget in my nose, I began to think of the hours
I’d spent running. It wasn’t just the hours at Yarra Park or St Kilda
beach I thought of, I went back to that first time I’d ventured out –
that time I’d plotted a course of four main streets to rid myself of the
cold dull ache in my bones. Tomorrow, however, I’d be running for
something more. I’d be running for my father, for Ma, for Jack, for
Alice, for Nostrils and for Mr Redmond. Tomorrow I’d be running the
race of my life and the stakes were high.
Clutching my running shoes to my chest, I turned my face to the
other side of the room.
‘Good night, Mr Redmond,’ I whispered.
‘Good night, Charlie.’
Next morning, I woke to the smell of Nugget. Mr Redmond was
already up, so I leapt from the bed, dressed then joined him in the
kitchen. Mrs Pickwick was sitting at the table opposite him.
‘’Ere ’e is now, Mr Redmond,’ she said. ‘Did ya sleep awright,
Charlie?’
‘Like a log, Mrs Pickwick.’
‘And ’ow are ya feelin’?’ asked Mr Redmond.
‘I’m feelin’ fast, as it ’appens.’
‘Good lad. Sit yerself down and ’ave some toast. And get some water
into ya. I don’t want ya thirsty before the race. We’ve only an ’our and
a ’alf before yer heat.’
After a light breakfast, Mr Redmond and I packed our gear and said
goodbye to Mrs Pickwick at the front door. As I went to step off the
porch, she cupped my face in her hands and kissed me on the cheek.
‘I just thought ya’d like ta know, Charlie,’ she said. ‘It’s never
’appened ta me before, but last night, I ’ad a vision in me sleep…
Those black runnin’ shoes I was tellin’ ya about – they was yers,
Charlie.’
‘Really?’
‘As clear as day… Good luck, Charlie, I’ll be along ta see ya later.’
With a spring in my step I walked alongside Mr Redmond to the
track.
‘Don’t go gettin’ carried away, now,’ he said.
‘But Mr Redmond, she ’ad a vision. And she knew about me father,
too.’
‘Just concentrate on the runnin’, Charlie. That’s what we’re ’ere fer.’
Soon enough we arrived at Centennial Park. Already, a large group
of runners were gathered on the oval in the centre of the track
warming up. Since last night, two white marquees had been erected
on the grass directly in front of the small grandstand. From my
experience running for Squizzy Taylor, I knew one of them to be the
bookmaker’s tent. The other, just as crowded, seemed to be serving
refreshments.
‘I wonder what odds they’ve got me at?’ I asked casually.
‘They won’t ’ave ’em posted till the final, Charlie,’ replied Mr
Redmond. ‘No one knows yer form yet. They gotta get a look at ya in
the heats first.’
‘Is that right?’
‘Fer Gawd’s sake, Charlie, will ya stop worryin’ about yer odds and
start thinkin’ about yer heat. Ya gotta be in the first three ta make the
final, remember?’
‘I remember, Mr Redmond. First three.’
After finding a spot away from the crowd, I began warming up with
a few simple stretches. Not having run for a while, my legs felt strong
and fresh. Sitting on the grass, reaching for my toes, a pair of white
running spikes walked by. It was the young man from the train.
‘Rabbit boy,’ he smirked. ‘I see you’re in the first heat. Hope you’ve
booked a seat on the early train home.’
‘Ignore ’im, Charlie,’ said Mr Redmond, passing me a water bottle.
‘’Ere, ’ave a sip then put yer spikes on.’
I took up a spot near my bag and began untying the laces on my
father’s boots. For a moment I was back again, sitting on his bed. I
remembered his skeleton arms, and how they struggled with the
weight of the boots as he passed them to me. Maybe my father knew
something way back then. Maybe he’d planned all along to be here
with me – here when the stakes were high – and here when I needed
him most.
I placed the boots into my bag and slipped my feet into the black
spikes.