‘Awright, Charlie.’ Mr Redmond clapped me on the back. ‘Go fer a
light trot and see ’ow they fit.’
After the weight of my father’s boots, I trotted off as if I was
barefoot. Although my pace was easy, I could feel the metal spikes
piercing the dirt and pushing me forward. I’d never felt so fast.
‘They’re beaut, Mr Redmond,’ I breathed, having made my way
back. ‘I’ll be flyin’ in ’em.’
‘Good lad.’
If only he knew what I had planned.
Near the starting line off to our left, a man in a white coat began
ringing a bell.
‘Runners fer heat one!’ he called. ‘Runners fer heat one!’
Mr Redmond moved close to me and put an arm around my
shoulder. I was unable to meet his eyes, so I kept my head down and
stared at the grass.
‘Awright, Charlie, this is it… Just remember, yer’ve done everythin’
I asked of ya, and more. Yer ready fer this race – ready, more than
most of the runners ’ere. Now it’s up ta you. Just remember what I
told ya last night – if ya ’ave ta go wide, do it in the straight, but stay
on the inside lane on the bends. Awright, give us ya coat, and I’ll see
ya back ’ere. Good luck, Charlie.’
‘Thanks, Mr Redmond, I’ll do me best.’
‘Good lad.’
At the starting line I was the smallest of the runners by far. As the
others limbered up, I sat on the oval beside the track and undid the
laces on my spikes.
‘Awright, fellas,’ called the official. ‘Let’s make a start.’
In what could well prove to be the worst mistake of my life, I
removed one shoe then the other, and placed them on the grass.
Barefoot, I joined the others on the diagonal starting line.
In the distance I could hear Mr Redmond calling my name.
‘Charlie! What the flamin’ ’eck are ya doin’ lad? Put yer spikes on.
Charlie!’
Without turning, I stood with the others on the line and shook my
legs.
‘Charlie!’
Beside the track, the official moved into place.
‘I won’t start yas till yer behind the line, lads.’
Happy with the line, he raised a starter’s gun high in the air.
‘Awright… Take yer marks… Set…’
Bang!
We were off.
I jumped from the middle of the line and went towards the inside
lane. Just as Mr Redmond had predicted, the going was immediately
rough. While the other runners used their bulk to find a position, I
called on my speed and managed to settle midway in the pack, on the
inside lane. We went like that for one lap, then two, at a surprisingly
easy pace. Then, on the third lap, it happened – a bolter broke away
in a desperate attempt to lead, but was soon reeled in by the main
group. Three laps. At the start of the fourth, runners began to make
their moves. As we took the second last bend, I held my spot inside,
and resisted the urge to go wide. Those that did paid the price and
soon began to struggle in the straight. One more bend. Again they
went wide. Still midfield I felt comfortable so I quickened my pace
and moved forward into the final straight. As soon as we hit it, I
stepped wide and ran. Without my spikes, I called on every bit of
strength and somehow managed to make up ground on the leaders. It
was a dangerous game I was playing, but I started counting the
runners in front. There were four. One more spot and I was home. I
didn’t want to win. I wanted to be third. Gaps began to open up
between the four runners so I settled in behind the first two and
crossed the line.
I was third, and through to the final.
Mr Redmond, who was hovering at the finishing line, ran towards
me and threw his arms around me.
‘Yer in, Charlie,’ he screamed. ‘Ya made the final.’
As quick as he’d been to congratulate me, the celebrations stopped.
‘Now, would ya mind tellin’ me what the flamin’ ’eck ya were doin’
runnin’ barefoot?’