Doubled over, I sucked in air, barely able to talk.
‘I’m sorry ta go behind ya back like that, Mr Redmond, but would
ya mind if I told ya later.’
The three of us, first, second and third were taken to the bookies’
tent where our names were recorded on a board. When I gave my own
name, the gent writing the names looked up and laughed.
‘Charlie Feehan?’ he chuckled. ‘Yer the lad what ran barefoot, aren’t
ya?’
‘I am, sir.’
‘I seen a lot a things in me time, lad, but I never seen a runner run
barefoot in a professional footrace. I ’ate ta spoil yer fun, Charlie
Feehan, but ya ain’t got a ’ope in ’ell.’
As I turned my back on a chorus of laughter, I threw Mr Redmond a
wink then steered him away from the crowd.
‘What’s goin’ on, Charlie?’ he asked.
‘If there’s one thing I learnt, Mr Redmond, when I was workin’ fer
Squizzy Taylor, it’s never ta show yer strength before a fight.’
‘Eh?’
‘Did ya hear ’em laughin’ back there?’
‘I ’eard ’em, awright.’
‘It’s exactly what I was ’opin’ fer.’
‘It was?’
‘That’s right. I don’t know if yer gunna like what I’m up ta, Mr
Redmond, but I ran barefoot ta give me odds a boost.’
‘Ya what?’
Mr Redmond looked at me, stunned.
‘And ’ow did ya know ya we’re gunna even make it through? Ya
could a missed the final with a stunt like that.’
‘I’m sorry, Mr Redmond. I know ’ow much yer’ve ’elped me, but this
race, it’s me chance fer somethin’ better.’
Sensing his confusion, I put my arm around his shoulder and
steered him further afield. After a cautious look, left then right, I
pulled the envelope from my pocket and handed it to him.
‘In that there envelope is twenty-three quid,’ I whispered. ‘As soon
as the odds are posted after the final heat, I want ya ta put the lot on
me nose.’
‘Twenty-three quid? ’Ave yer lost yer mind, lad?’
‘Please, Mr Redmond.’
‘Jaysus, lad, yer only sixteen. I won’t do it. It’s a mug’s game,
gamblin’. Twenty-three quid is more money than most people see in a
lifetime. Yer mother’d ’ave a fit if she knew what ya were askin’. And
yer father, what would he say, Charlie?’
Over and over I’d thought my plan through in my head, and every
time I’d come to the same conclusion.
‘Look, Mr Redmond,’ I said. ‘I know well enough what gamblin’ can
do ta a family. I seen families ripped apart. Working fer Squizzy
Taylor, I seen it all. I’ve seen the two-up schools, the sly groggers, the
brothels… None of it pretty at all. And that money I just gave yer
now, it’s money earned from the likes a that. It’s dirty money, Mr
Redmond, it’s all me savin’s runnin’ fer Squizzy Taylor. I want ta use
it fer somethin’ good.’
‘Give it ta yer mother, then.’
‘No.’
‘Charlie, ya could blow the lot.’
‘Ya don’t think I can win, is that it?’
‘A course not, Charlie. D’ya think I’d be ’ere if I thought that?’
The two of us were now standing in the middle of the oval a few
yards apart, oblivious to the second heat being run around us.
‘Look, Mr Redmond, I ain’t proud a ’ow I earned the money. But I
need ya ta do this fer me.’
In front of me, Mr Redmond shook his head and ran his fingers
through his hair.
‘Jaysus, lad, I ’ope yer know what yer doin’?’
As he spoke the words, he took one last look into my eyes then
dropped the envelope into his pocket.
‘C’mon, then,’ he added. ‘We got a race ta win.’
Even though I’d made up my mind what to do with the money a
few days ago, I don’t mind admitting that the very thought of losing it
terrified me. It was a sum and a half, after all. But at the same time,
knowing where it came from, I felt somewhat relieved to no longer
have it with me. I have no doubt that if the money had been earned
through honest means, I would no sooner have gambled it than taken
to it with a match. Yes, the stakes were high, but money-wise, I had
nothing to lose.
As soon as I began warming up for the final I pushed the money
from my mind. Even when Mr Redmond returned from the bookies’
tent with sweat on his brow I continued on in silence. I was here to
run.
After composing himself, Mr Redmond took a sip of water then
offered me the bottle.