‘I take it yer’ve no more tricks up yer sleeve, Charlie?’ he asked.
‘No more, Mr Redmond. I’m ’ere ta run.’
‘I’m glad ta ’ear it, lad. And ya’ll be doin’ the runnin’ in spikes, I
take it?’
‘A course. It’s the final, Mr Redmond, I ain’t that stupid.’
‘Very well. How are yer legs feelin’? Why don’t ya lie down and I’ll
give ’em a rub?’
I did as instructed and soon Mr Redmond was working his knuckles
into my right calf. After my left, he moved onto my thighs until my
legs were tingling all over.
‘Awright then, Charlie,’ he said. ‘Pull on yer spikes and we’ll go fer
a trot.’
Still in my coat, I jogged across the oval nice and easy. Runners
passed by me in flashy colours, among them was the man from the
train. His running strip was a shiny maroon colour with a gold
emblem blazoned across his chest. Me, I wore a white singlet and a
pair of brown shorts that scratched at my inner thigh when I ran.
When he saw me he slowed to a jog.
‘You made the final I see, rabbit boy,’ he said. ‘Must’ve been an easy
heat you were in. See you on the line.’
Soon enough, the starter began ringing his bell.
‘Runners fer the final!’ he called. ‘Runners fer the Ballarat Mile!’
This time, Mr Redmond walked me over to the starting line.
‘Get yerselves ready, lads,’ called the starter. ‘We’re gettin’ close ta
time.’
A little way from the rest of the runners, Mr Redmond once again
put a hand on my shoulder and looked deep into my eyes.
‘This is it, Charlie,’ he said. ‘The Ballarat Mile.’
I gritted my teeth and returned his gaze.
‘Don’t be fooled by these bigger fellas, ’ere,’ he continued. ‘It don’t
mean nothin’ bein’ big, ya saw that in the heat. Fink smart, Charlie,
and run yer own race.’
Slowly his hand moved from my shoulder to my face. With tears in
his eyes he drew me in and kissed my cheek.
‘Good luck, Charlie,’ he sniffed. ‘Make me proud.’
As I handed him my coat, an envelope dropped from a pocket onto
the grass. With everything that had happened, I’d completely
forgotten it was there. I picked it up and slid a single sheet of paper
from it and read:
Dear Charlie,
Run like the wind.
Love Alice
Now I was ready to run.
I handed Mr Redmond the note then joined the others at the start.
Left foot forward, I stood on the line and drove the spikes of my shoes
down into the dirt.
‘Very well, lads,’ called the starter. ‘This is it – the final of the
Ballarat Mile. I’m ready fer yis. Make a line, if ya will.’
From the corner of my eye I saw him raise the gun in the air.
‘Take yer marks… Set…’
Bang!
I jumped from the line better than most and once again headed
straight for the inside. Fourteen others had the same idea and soon I
was caught in a pack, bumping and jostling for position. At the first
bend I was running three wide to avoid being knocked to the ground
by the bigger runners, who’d by now settled inside. Try as I might, no
one would let me in. Mr Redmond must have been close by for I could
hear him shouting instructions.
‘Get inside, Charlie! Fer gawd’s sake, get yerself inside!’
Down the back straight I tried again, but the runners were too
tightly packed. Covering more ground than the inside runners, I began
to slip a few spots until I was back midfield. As a runner on my left
swung wide in the straight, I finally slipped inside and found some
rhythm. Once there, I was able to get a feel for the pace. It was quick,
much quicker than the earlier heat, and after the first lap, I began to
wonder whether I’d be able to keep it up. For the time being,
however, I was happy enough to stay put midfield and wait. Although
there’d been little change in the order, after lap two, the pace,
thankfully, had slackened. Lap three, I decided, was the time to make
my move. As we rounded the bend into the back straight, I moved out
a lane and overtook two, maybe three runners then slipped back to
the inside lane. Up ahead I spotted a maroon singlet running second.
One lap to go.
At the start of the final lap, I realised that the race would be
decided in the final straight. Currently, however, I was in no position
to threaten the leaders once we arrived. I needed to move and I
needed to do it now. On the third last bend I stayed inside then as
soon as we hit the straight I bolted. Behind, I felt someone come with
me so I maintained my pace. At the next bend I was in lane two with
a runner on my left and one on my right. A whole pack of them had
moved with me down the straight and suddenly there were half a
dozen trying to run wide. Quickly the widest runners began to slow
until I found myself alongside the maroon singlet. Someone joined us
on my right making it four of us in a line. This was it. The winner of
the Ballarat Mile was about to be decided.