After four gruelling laps, the race had come down to a sprint. Into
the straight, although my legs were burning, I called on them for
more and they responded. On my inside the maroon singlet came with
me until it was just the two of us heading for the line. Then suddenly,
something strange happened. Lane two lit up in front of me and as I
looked to the line, for a moment I saw a group of people cheering me
on – my father, my ma, Jack, Alice and Nostrils. They were all there.
Seeing them, my legs seemed to find something more. With a
heaving chest I ran towards them, a flash of maroon by my side, and
lunged desperately across the line. For a few seconds I was not sure
who had won, but when I saw Mr Redmond running towards me with
his arms in the air, I knew it was me.
‘Whahoooo!’
When he got to me he lifted me up in his arms and spun me around
so many times I thought I might be sick. Over and over he kept
screaming the same thing.
‘Ya just won the mile, Charlie! Ya just won the mile!’
By the time he put me down I was able to string a few words
together. I put my arms around his neck and hugged him tight.
‘We won the mile, Mr Redmond,’ I said. ‘We won the mile. I
couldn’t a done it without ya.’
After Mr Redmond, the first to congratulate me was the official in
the white coat.
‘Well done, lad,’ he smiled, offering me his hand. ‘I think ya just
wrote yerself inta the ’istory books. Ya’d ’ave ta be the youngest
winner of the mile, I reckon. Anyway, ’ow’d ya like ta walk a victory
lap fer us.’
Grabbing hold of Mr Redmond’s arm, I forced him to walk a lap
with me around the track. As we made our way around the outside
lane, a string of people darted from the crowd to shake my hand and
pat my back. I could hardly believe it.
‘Fancy that, eh Mr Redmond,’ I said. ‘I’m the youngest runner ta
win the mile.’
‘And that ain’t all, I’ll ’ave ya know. By my reckonin’, Charlie, ya
might just be the richest, too.’
Mr Redmond was shaking.
‘I put yer money on yer nose,’ he quivered. ‘Just like ya asked.’
‘And?’
‘And I got ya at fifty ta one.’
‘Struth.’
‘Struth is right. If me sums is right, with the prize-money an’ all,
yer’ve a grand total in yer kitty of one thousand, two hundred pound.’
As I let out a scream, two men picked me up and put me on their
shoulders. I was King Charlie and this was my moment.
In the crowd I spotted Mrs Pickwick who raised her hand to her
mouth and blew a kiss from her palm. She’d been right after all – the
black running spikes she’d seen in her dreams belonged to me.
After the victory lap, we headed towards the crowd gathered in
front of the white marquees where I was presented with a silver cup
and the fifty quid purse. The Ballarat Mile of 1919 had been run and
won and my name, Charlie Feehan, was written in the books as the
youngest runner ever to win.
I continued shaking hands until Mr Redmond appeared some time
later and put his hand on my shoulder. He smiled, then with his free
hand patted the huge bulge of money in his coat pocket.
‘Giddy-up,’ he winked. ‘I don’t want ta spoil yer fun, Charlie, but we
got a train ta catch.’
Although I was enjoying the attention, I shook a few more hands
then followed Mr Redmond through a cheering crowd. I couldn’t wait
to get back home – back to Ma and Jack.
After packing our things, Mrs Pickwick met us at her front door
with a bag of fresh vegies. She handed them to me and kissed my
cheek.
‘If ya ever enter the mile again, Charlie, ya be sure ta come and
stay. It was a pleasure ’avin ya ’ere.’
‘Thanks, Mrs Pickwick. I reckon that stew ya cooked last night
might a got me over the line.’
‘No fear, Charlie. I’ve ’ad a few runners stay with me over the years,
and I can tell ya, without a shadow of a doubt… ya won that race on
yer own.’