CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
I was just as excited to be returning home as I had been on the train
trip up. As I sat on a leather seat, gazing out the window, I heard a
familiar voice behind me.
‘Charlie Feehan?’
When I turned, the runner from the Melbourne Harriers, the young
man I’d pipped on the line, stood before me with a bag slung over his
shoulder.
He stepped forward and offered me his hand.
‘You sure can run, Charlie Feehan.’
‘Thanks.’
‘You were right about the speed, too… I’ve never heard of rabbiting
as a training method, but if I’m ever down at Yarra Park, I’ll keep my
eyes out for you.’
‘No worries.’
‘And if you’re ever thinking of training with a club, we’d love to
have you at the Harriers.’
‘Thanks all the same, but I got a trainer right ’ere.’
‘Suit yourself. Anyway, good luck, and who knows – I might see you
next year.’
‘Who knows – ya just might.’
The two of us shook hands again, only this time, instead of taking
the seat opposite, the young man slid into a seat a few rows up.
Beside me, Mr Redmond sat nervously, a hand guarding the wad of
money in his coat pocket.
‘So then, Charlie,’ he said quietly. ‘What are ya gunna do with it
all?’
‘I’m glad ya asked, Mr Redmond… Funnily enough, it’s somethin’
that I’m gunna need yer help with.’
During the trip home, I told Mr Redmond all about my secret plans.
The technicalities, he’d look into, but as far as he could tell, the
problems were bound to be few.
‘As ya know yerself, Charlie,’ he said. ‘Money talks like nothin’ else.’
‘So ya’ll organise it fer me, then?’
‘A course, I will. Why don’t ya ’ave a snooze. Go on, ya bloody well
earnt it, I reckon.’
Walking home from the station, my eyes gobbled up the city sights.
All around me things were on the move. There were noises
everywhere.
I turned to Mr Redmond and smiled.
‘Ain’t it good ta be ’ome, Mr Redmond?’
‘That it is, Charlie,’ he replied. ‘That it is.’
Finally the two of us turned into Cubitt Street and continued on
until we reached my front gate. As we slowed to a halt, I pulled the
silver cup from my bag and handed it to him.
‘Here, Mr Redmond, I want ya ta ’ave this.’
‘No, Charlie, I can’t.’
‘I can show it ta me Ma in the mornin’, Mr Redmond. I want ya ta
’ave it.’
‘Charlie…’
‘It ain’t just the runnin’, Mr Redmond. Ya done so much fer us, I
don’t know where we’d be without ya.’
Even in the dark of night, the silver cup seemed to have a brilliant
shine about it. Slowly, Mr Redmond raised it up as if he were a priest
lifting a chalice at Sunday Mass.
‘First place,’ he read. ‘The Ballarat Mile, 1919. God bless yer,
Charlie… if I die in me sleep tonight, then I’ll die a ’appy man.’
‘Don’t ya go dyin’ on me just yet,’ I said. ‘There’s somethin’ else I
want ya ta do first.’
‘There is?’
‘Yeah. I want ya ta take whatever ya need from the winnin’s and see
about a new set a teeth fer Mrs Redmond. Whatever it takes, Mr
Redmond. The cost don’t worry me none.’
‘But, Charlie…’
For the first time in his life, Mr Redmond was lost for words. I
stepped forward and hugged him to me.
‘Finkin’ and footwork,’ I whispered in his ear. ‘Finkin’ and
footwork.’
Inside, our house felt deliciously warm. Ma must have heard me at
the door, for in seconds she was standing before me in the hall, silent,
her eyes doing the asking instead of her mouth.
‘I won it, Ma,’ I said.
Before she had time to move, I stepped forward and fell into her
arms.