CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
At eleven o’clock on Saturday, two weeks after the Ballarat Mile, I met
with my invited guests outside the gate of Porter’s Wood Yard, in
Church Street, Richmond. They were all there: Ma, Jack, the
Redmonds, Alice and her father, Mr and Mrs Heath and of course,
Nostrils. Besides Mr Redmond and myself, no one had a clue why they
were there.
At a few minutes past eleven, the time had finally come to put the
bewildered guests out of their misery. Mr Redmond and I positioned
ourselves on either side of the newly erected sign that we’d earlier
covered with a huge black sheet.
‘C’mon, Charlie,’ he whispered. ‘Get a wriggle on, will ya… there’s
some nasty cumulus formin’ over’ead.’
‘Awright, Mr Redmond,’ I smiled. ‘Keep yer shirt on.’
Clearing my throat, I turned and faced the small crowd.
‘Awright then,’ I announced. ‘I s’pose yer all wonderin’ why I’ve
invited yas all ’ere… Well, yer about ta find out… Nostrils, if ya can
work them crutches ’oldin’ ya up, I’d like ya ta come out ’ere and do
the honours, if ya will.’
Surprisingly, Nostrils managed to cover the few yards without too
much fuss until he was standing beside me, with a confused look on
his face.
I handed him the drawstring connected to the sheet then waved my
arm to indicate the yard behind me.
‘Ladies and gentlemen!… I give you!…’
Nostrils may have been an expert bell-ringer, but he was nothing
when it came to pulling a drawstring. Not wanting to cause a scene, I
leant sideways and whispered in his ear.
‘Fer gawd’s sake, Nostrils, will ya give the bloody thing a tug.’
With his right hand, Nostrils yanked at the drawstring. As the black
sheet fell from the sign, I turned once again to face my guests then
waved an arm behind me.
‘Ladies and gentlemen… I give ya, The Heath and Feehan Timber
Company!’
From my coat pocket, I grabbed hold of a set of keys and tossed
them to Nostrils.
‘Seems only fair,’ I smiled. ‘Seein’ as yer’ve got top billin’.’
Nostrils stood completely still, staring at the keys in his hand.
‘Bloody ’ell, Charlie,’ he managed.
‘Come on, Nostrils… will ya open the bloody gate… we got people
’ere wantin’ a tour.’
In the small but comfortable office, as Mr Redmond began
explaining the workings of the yard, someone’s hand gripped my right
shoulder. It was Mr Heath.
‘I’ve lost count a how many effs we’re up ta Charlie,’ he said, ‘but I
never in me whole life seen a finer friend than yerself.’
‘I don’t know about that, Mr Heath,’ I replied. ‘I reckon I got a bit ta
make up fer.’
When Mr Redmond was finished playing tour guide, Ma invited the
guests back for refreshments to our house in Cubitt Street. When we
arrived at the front gate, a familiar song was playing inside.
I’m forever blowing bubbles,
Pretty bubbles in the air.
Mrs Redmond, who’d been despatched home early by her husband,
had the place set for a party. There was beer and lemonade, and on a
side-table near the window, enough cakes and pastries to feed a footy
team. In fact, had we been asked to take the field, I’m sure we
would’ve had the numbers. Instead, the whole lot of us danced. We
crammed into that tiny room like we used to when my father was
alive. Song after song we swapped partners until it came my turn to
dance with Alice. At first the two of us stood at a polite distance, but
soon enough she drew me in so close that our cheeks touched and her
hair tickled my nose. At that moment, as I breathed her in, it was as if
we were the only ones in the room.
Halfway through the song, a wetness on my cheek made me pull
away. I looked at Alice and saw that she was crying.
‘What’s wrong, Alice?’ I whispered. ‘Am I steppin’ on yer toes?
‘No, Charlie,’ she sniffed. ‘I’m just lookin’ at me dad. He’s dancin’,
Charlie… I can’t believe me eyes. It’s the first time I ever seen him
dance.’
As she wiped her eyes, I stepped back and took a quick look over
my shoulder.
‘Maybe ya should go and…’
Before I’d finished, I felt her hands pull me close again.
‘Ah, no ya don’t,’ she said. ‘I ain’t givin’ ya up just yet.’
We danced and we sang well into the night until the only guests left
were Mr and Mrs Redmond.
As Mr Redmond sat in the corner of the living room drinking beer
from the Ballarat Cup, I ducked off into the hall and headed for the
door.
As I turned the knob, Ma appeared behind me.
‘Where are ya goin’, Charlie?’ she asked.
‘I’m goin’ runnin’, Ma.’
‘Runnin? Where to?’
I dropped my eyes to my father’s boots then looked up and smiled.
‘Who knows, Ma, who knows.’