CHAPTER FOUR
I had little to do that afternoon, so I occupied myself spying on
Harriet from the kitchen window. You learnt quickly how to survive
in the slums. You learnt how to read people. It was in their walk, their
clothes and their eyes. Especially the eyes. Reading people was an art
all right, but I tell you, this waddling ball of feathers had me stumped.
I propped myself on a chair and soon enough a pattern emerged in
Harriet’s behaviour. Eat, shit, swim – standard behaviour for a duck.
Harriet, like my brother Jack, was fond of slugs. In the warmer
months, before we purchased Harriet, I would take Jack out back and
let him crawl around the yard. One day I let him loose then left to get
myself a chair. I’d only been gone a few seconds, but when I returned
I saw him pick up a slug and pop it into his mouth.
Harriet was on the move. To avoid her seeing me, I dipped my head
as she waddled towards the window, quacking excitedly. She pounced
on a slug, picked it up with her beak then shook her head to help it
down her throat. Satisfied, she moved closer until she was underneath
my window. I’d lost sight of her now. Afraid I might miss something I
raised myself up slowly until I could see her. Surely my eyes were
playing tricks? There she was, standing before me, looking up into my
eyes. Then, as God as my only witness, I swear, that duck had the
nerve to smile.
With a supply of wood on hand, Saturday night was the highlight of
our week, and after the incident with Harriet I was in need of some
cheering up. As far as I knew, slugs preferred the outdoors, so I left
Jack on the living room floor and joined Ma in the kitchen.
‘Rabbit stew, is it, Ma?’
‘It is, Charlie,’ she said. ‘I’m nearly ready fer ya. Why don’t ya start
stokin’ the oven?’
Already my mouth was watering. I loved Ma’s stews. Even though
the pickings were slim, she had this knack of making things taste
wonderful. I once heard someone say, ‘Ya can’t make strawberry jam
outta pig shit.’ I can’t remember who it was that said it, but I can tell
you, they had never sat down with the Feehans for dinner.
I loaded the oven with kindling and lit it. I was an expert with fires;
my father had taught me well. Slowly, I placed larger pieces on top in
a pyramid pattern, careful not to smother the flames and before long
it was ready for the pot.
As Ma loaded it in, I fetched Jack and, like every Saturday night,
the three of us sat in front of the stove, happy and warm. Outside I
heard Harriet quack-quacking and I smiled.
‘Yer’ve a smile on yer face, Charlie,’ said Ma. ‘I’ll give ya a penny
fer yer thoughts.’
‘I was just thinkin’ ’bout Christmas dinner,’ I replied.
‘Yer gettin’ a bit ahead a yerself, ain’t ya?… Awright then, what
d’ya fancy this year?’
‘I’m thinkin’ roast duck.’
Rabbit stew was not the only highlight on a Saturday night. Saturday
night was also bath night.
I filled the copper with buckets of water. Then, underneath it, I
arranged the wood as before, pyramid style and lit it. Again, the three
of us positioned ourselves around the kitchen stove, Ma and I rubbing
our hands up close. This was our time. While we waited for the
copper to boil, we talked. I dared not mention Squizzy’s name to her,
for I knew that anything I said would fall on deaf ears. It was pointless
anyway, on that score my mind was already made up. On Monday
morning, as agreed, I would be fronting up for work, with or without
my ma’s consent.
From the copper, I relayed buckets of warm water to the bath. The
water was never really hot. We were always mindful of saving some
wood for the weekday cooking. So, even to fill the bathtub halfway,
the going was slow. Still, you can imagine how excited we were.
There was nothing on earth like sinking into a warm tub.
Jack was first, then Ma, then me.
Although the water was at its worst, I was happy enough to be last
because Ma always insisted that I keep a little hot water in the copper
to add to the bath before I dived in.
Finally my turn came. I stripped off then carefully lowered myself
into the tub, gasping each time the soapy water found my wounds.
Feet.
Knees.
Hands.
When the pain subsided, I sat back and let the soothing begin. I
closed my eyes and slid a hand down to massage an ache on my right
thigh. I was proud of my legs. Before the running, they were nothing
more than two slender sticks. Chicken legs, my father called them. But
now with the miles in them, they were steely and strong. They were
runner’s legs – legs that would one day carry me out of the slums for
good.