CHAPTER FIVE
After lunch the next day, I answered a knock on our front door. Mr
Peacock stood before me with a newspaper parcel tucked under his
arm. His visit had completely slipped my mind.
‘Afternoon, young Charlie.’
‘Afternoon, Mr Peacock,’ I replied. ‘Would ya mind waitin’ ’alf a jiff,
I’ll go and get Ma.’
I raced into the kitchen and found Ma with her hands in the sink.
‘There’s somethin’ I forgot ta tell ya, Ma,’ I confessed sheepishly.
‘What is it, Charlie?’
‘We’ve a visitor comin’ over today.’
‘A visitor? I’m not acceptin’ visitors no more.’
‘It’s Mr Peacock, Ma.’
‘Mr Peacock? And when should we be expectin’ ’im?’
‘Er… ’e’s ’ere, right now.’
‘What d’ya mean, ’e’s ’ere?’
‘I’ve left ’im at the front door.’
If there was one thing that Ma prided herself on, it was her house. It
was a dive for sure, but although people seldom came to visit any
more, she always made sure it was at its best.
‘Good Lord, Charlie,’ she barked. ‘What are ya thinkin’? The place is
a mess.’
In a mad rush she tore off her apron and fiddled with her hair.
Personally, I don’t know why she was bothering. Mr Peacock was an
old friend. She fixed her dress before stepping into the hallway.
‘Mr Peacock… Ya’ll ’ave ta excuse Charlie, ’e’s swallowed ’is
manners with ’is dinner. Do come in outta the cold.’
Smiling, Mr Peacock removed his hat then followed Ma inside. In
the living room, he handed her the parcel and took a seat. It was my
father’s seat.
‘I ’ope yer young ’un likes chicken.’
Ma blushed. ‘Chicken? Mr Peacock, ya shouldn’t ’ave.’
Having no family of his own to speak of, Mr Peacock had been a
regular visitor to our house. Still, seeing him in my father’s chair
made me feel uneasy.
Overall, Mr Peacock was a plain-looking man. The corners of his
mouth were turned downwards, making it look as though he’d been
cursed with a permanent scowl. But there was a whiff of cologne
about him today, and his appearance suggested he’d gone to some
amount of trouble before stepping out. Never before had I seen him
looking so smart. Except for a disobedient lock on the crown of his
head, his hair was styled flat with a healthy serve of Brylcreem.
Underneath a grey suit and matching vest, he wore a collarless white
shirt, buttoned to the throat. And, for the first time, instead of boots
he wore shoes, freshly polished.
I did not feel like talking, myself, so I sat for a while and listened.
What little conversation passed between my ma and Mr Peacock was
awkward. Long silences filled the living room punctuated by
meaningless questions and answers. Everything had changed. In the
past the link between them had been my father, but now with him
gone they were like two strangers speaking for the first time.
He was a talker, my father, a chewer of ears. Whenever there was
company around he was at his best. So then, it may come as little
surprise when I say that it was times like these that I missed my father
most. I wanted him back. Not for them, but for me.
It got so that I felt I would suffocate in that tiny room. I was about
to excuse myself when another knock sounded on the door.
Nostrils!