Leaping from my seat, I scampered up the hallway and answered
the door. Behind it I found Nostrils emptying both barrels into a
handkerchief. Had I known him better I would have hugged him.
‘Ma, this ’ere is Norman,’ I announced at the living-room door.
She turned, thankful for the interruption.
Quickly I grabbed Nostril’s sleeve as he tried to enter the room.
‘Hello, Norman,’ said Ma. ‘It’s a pleasure… I don’t s’pose yer’ve met
Mr Peacock?’
‘Can’t say I ’ave, Mrs Feehan. Good afternoon, Mr Peacock.’
After the formalities, Nostrils stood next to me and waited for my
lead. We nodded politely then bade farewell.
In the kitchen I lit some wood under the kettle then pointed back to
the living room.
‘They were doin’ me ’ead in before ya came,’ I explained.
Poor Nostrils looked confused.
‘Ya could a warned me, Charlie,’ he said. ‘At first I thought it was
yer old man, sittin’ there.’
‘Who ’im? Yer’ve got ta be kiddin’. Listen, d’ya want a cuppa?’
‘Yeah, why not.’
As I set up two cups, Nostrils shuffled to the window and looked
outside.
‘Yer keepin’ a duck, I see?’
‘It’s Harriet,’ I scowled. ‘The bloody thing’s playin’ me fer a right
mug. I’ve done me best ta keep her happy but she refuses ta give us an
egg. D’ya know anythin’ about ’em?’
‘As a matter a fact I do, Charlie. And I think I can see yer problem
from ’ere.’
‘Ya can? It’s the dam, ain’t it?’
‘The dam looks fine, Charlie. Real invitin’. In fact, had I brought me
togs with me, I’d be up fer a dip meself.’
‘Well, what is it then?’
‘It’s Harriet,’ explained Nostrils. ‘I think ya ought’a change its
name.’
‘What d’ya mean?’
‘That there’s no Harriet, Charlie.’
‘It ain’t?’
‘Nah. It’s Harry.’
After the cup of tea, Nostrils and I cleared out with the footy and
headed to Barkly Gardens, in South Richmond. On the way we talked
about many things, even my father. Besides my ma, I hadn’t spoken to
anyone about his death. Not properly, anyway. It had been two and a
half months since they carried him away and still I could not bring
myself to say the word – ‘DEAD’ – it seemed so final and I was not yet
ready to let him go. But with Nostrils, it was different. He never
pushed it, like other people. He just listened.
In the summer months, Barkly Gardens was the place to be. On a
Sunday, families arrived early with picnic blankets to stake a claim on
a piece of grass. They came for the band recitals that took place in the
rotunda in the centre of the gardens. But as it grew colder, the crowds
began to thin.
Approaching the gardens, I booted the footy across the grass. I’d
planned for a spiralling torpedo but my foot caught it awkwardly,
sending it off on right angles in a flat mongrel punt.
‘Struth!’
‘I see I’m gunna afta teach ya a couple a things,’ smirked Nostrils.
‘Ya’d be lucky ta get a game with Carlton, kickin’ like that.’
Suddenly Nostrils took off, ploughing across the wet grass in search
of the pigskin. He looked back and flashed me a crazy smile.
‘Come on, Charlie,’ he roared. ‘I reckon ya was lucky the other day.
Ain’t no eggs ta think ’bout this time.’
Although he had a start I bounded after him. We reached the footy
neck and neck, but it was Nostrils who wanted it more. With eyes
only for the ball he dived on top of it and slid across the grass.
‘Whahoooooo!’