After showering himself in glory, Nostrils suggested we position
ourselves for a kick.
‘Who d’ya wanna be?’ he asked.
Quickly I ran through the Richmond players I knew.
‘I’ll be Barney Herbert,’ I replied.
‘Ya can’t be Barney Herbert, he’s a ruckman. Yer’ve gotta be
someone scrawny, like yerself.’
‘Awright. I’ll be Dave Moffatt, then.’
Nostrils nodded his approval.
‘Righto,’ he said. ‘And I’ll be Vic Thorp, full-back.’
For the next half an hour, Nostrils and I were Dave Moffatt and Vic
Thorp. I did my best to be flashy. I scooped up the ball one-handed
and dodged and weaved around imaginary opponents. Whenever I
slipped I heard the crowd cheering, willing me on. Through the centre
I sped, brushing tackles aside. One bounce. Two bounces. What a run.
At the centre-half-forward position I took a third bounce and
unleashed a booming right foot. The ball sailed through the goals.
Siren. I’d just won Richmond the flag.
I was pathetic, really. No match at all for Nostrils at the other end.
Even I could see that. He was taller than me by a good three inches
and thicker-set. In full flight, good players have a certain grace about
them and Nostrils was no exception. He had balance and style galore.
And skill! He had it in bucketloads. Drop punt. Torpedo. Drop kick.
He reeled them off as easy as blowing his nose.
I stood ready at the other end as Nostrils lined one up. He dropped
the ball onto his boot so sweetly that it sailed over my head and
headed for the rotunda. I’d done a fair amount of chasing already so I
jogged after it at an easy pace. I was almost there when I spotted a
group of boys coming down the rotunda steps.
One of them spoke.
‘Feehan!’
It was Barlow.
Standing some twelve yards away, I quickly sized up my options.
There were six of them and one of me – unbackable odds in anyone’s
book. Not even Squizzy would be interested in a piece of that. My
eyes got busy, shifting between the footy and the boys. At the head of
the pack, Barlow made a move. He dismounted the steps and scooped
up the footy.
‘Look what we ’ave ’ere, lads,’ he smiled. ‘Charlie Feehan ’ere ’as
kindly donated us a footy.’
With his right fist he offloaded a sizzling handball that caught one
of his mates off-guard. Then suddenly, something in his head clicked.
‘Get ’im!’ he yelled.
Not surprisingly, I was ready for them. I jumped out of the blocks
and ran. Speeding across the wet grass, I thought about Barlow’s
handball. Only this time my head was the footy.
Up ahead, Nostrils was ambling towards me, confused. My arms
were busy pumping the air so I warned him the only way I could.
I screamed.
‘Run!’
The change on Nostrils’ face told me he’d spotted Barlow – a good
enough reason to get going right then and there. Instead, Nostrils did
something I’ll never forget.
He waited.
Fortunately he had the good sense to point himself in the right
direction so that when I drew near he took off beside me.
Then together, we ran for our lives.
I don’t know about Nostrils but I can tell you, it felt as if someone
had stuck a cracker down the seat of my pants. When we left the
wetness of the grass, both of us lengthened our stride. I could sense
that we’d widened the gap on Barlow and his mates so I snuck a look
back. I was right. Already two of them were down and the others
appeared to be slowing. In their haste for blood they’d forgotten about
the conditions underfoot. We were away.
It was only when we crossed the railway track near Church Street
that Nostrils and I slowed to a walk.
‘Can ya believe it, Nostrils?’ I puffed. ‘That waster pinched me
footy.’
‘Don’t worry, Charlie. I’ve a feelin’ we’ll be seein’ ’im again. Maybe
if yer real polite ’e’ll give it back. Only remind me not to be standin’
next ta yer when ya ask.’