CHAPTER SIX
Monday morning I stirred early. I dressed in my cleanest clothes then
dug out the box of newspapers from under my bed. By now I’d
become an expert. I slid on my boots then began filling the holes.
Apart from the fact that I would be running messages, I’d been told
little about my new job. I was to report to the Darlington Parade
house at 9.00 a.m. That was all.
With my shoes packed tight I headed to the kitchen and fixed
myself some porridge. Ma joined me with Jack.
‘That’ll get ya learnin’,’ she smiled, pointing to the oats.
As far as Ma was concerned, Monday morning had started like any
other. It was only I who knew it to be different. I was not proud to be
going behind her back like this, and under normal circumstances I
would have obeyed her wishes, without question. But our
circumstances were far from normal now. This was our chance at
something better and I would not let it slip for anyone. Not even my
own ma.
After a leisurely walk, I knocked on the Darlington Parade door
with five minutes to spare. A woman, the same one who’d carried the
tray of eggs on race day, opened the door and smiled. She smelt like
lavender.
‘Ya must be Charlie?’ she asked.
‘I am, miss.’
‘Me name’s Dolly, Charlie. Ya did well the other day. Come on
through.’
I followed Dolly down the darkened hall and into the living room.
‘Take a seat, Charlie,’ she said. ‘Squizzy’s bought ya somethin’.’
On a table next to the divan, Dolly retrieved a parcel and sat down
next to me. She sat so close I could smell the tea on her breath.
‘When I say ’e bought ’em, ’e did. But it was me what chose ’em.’
Slowly she opened the lid and removed a pair of shiny black boots.
‘Well, Charlie, what d’ya reckon? They’re leather.’
I sat wide-eyed, unable to speak.
‘I took a punt on the size,’ she smiled. ‘I ’ope they fit.’
Although I was excited, nothing came from my mouth.
‘Come on then, let’s try ’em on.’
Next thing I knew, Dolly’s bent down untying the laces on my
father’s boots.
‘I was gunna get the brown, but I thought the dirt’d show up less on
the black.’
As I bent down to help her, my head hit hers.
‘Sorry,’ I said.
‘It’s awright, Charlie, no need ta be shy. What say we get rid a these
stinkin’ things?’
Standing with her arms fully stretched, she held the boots away
from her nose as if she was handling something unspeakable.
Suddenly I found my voice.
‘I might keep ’em if ya don’t mind, Dolly.’
‘What, these?’ she asked. ‘I’ve a good mind ta go out the back and
bury ’em.’
‘They were me father’s,’ I said softly.
Slowly, Dolly sat down beside me and placed a gentle hand on my
shoulder. Her blue eyes were close to tears.
‘Oh, Charlie. I’m sorry. I can be a right cow sometimes. ’Ere, how
about I put ’em back in this nice box?’
‘Thanks.’