Off to my right, Squizzy appeared through the doorway.
‘Hello then,’ he chortled. ‘What’s goin’ on ’ere? Yer not tryin’ ta
steal me girl, are ya, Charlie?’
I was shocked.
‘Mr Taylor, I swear, I never…’
‘Charlie, it’s awright,’ he laughed. ‘I’m messin’. How are the boots?’
Dolly waved him off, annoyed.
‘Hang on ta yer trousers, Squiz,’ she said. ‘We ’aven’t tried ’em on
yet.’
With my father’s boots tucked safely in the box, Dolly slid the new
pair onto my feet. I tell you, I never felt anything so smooth in all my
life. She tied the laces then gave my feet a playful squeeze.
‘Go on then, Charlie,’ she smiled, ‘’ave a walk.’
Slowly I rose to my feet and stepped a lap around the room.
‘Well?’ asked Dolly, still kneeling.
‘They’re perfect,’ I said.
‘Yer sure now? We can exchange ’em if they don’t fit.’
‘They fit fine, Dolly. Thanks.’
Behind me I heard Squizzy clap.
‘Good,’ he said. ‘Cause I got a job fer ya, Charlie. Come on, shake a
leg.’
Before I made to leave, Dolly threw me a wink. I followed Squizzy
down the hall stepping across floorboards as if I was walking on air.
At the end of the house I entered a large room with piles of paper
scattered across the floor. Boxes, some of them open, lined the walls
and a wooden table stood heavy, centre place.
‘I’ve not ’eard from yer ma, Charlie,’ said Squizzy. ‘D’ya have a
letter fer me?’
‘I’m afraid I don’t, Mr Taylor,’ I said, nervously. ‘It’s somethin’ I’ve
been meanin’ ta talk ta ya about.’
Squizzy took a seat behind the table and indicated with his hand
that I should sit.
‘She’s not agreed ta me runnin’ fer ya. She thinks I’m at school.’
‘Is that so? And what school is it yer supposed ta be attendin’?’
‘Saint Ignatius, sir.’
Squizzy’s chair creaked as he eased back into it. He sat for a while,
thinking.
‘I’m not normally one ta go against the wishes of a mother, Charlie.
But I’m in desperate need of a lad like yerself. Who’s yer teacher at
Saint Ignatius?’
‘It’s Mrs Nagle, sir.’
On a piece of paper, Squizzy wrote her name.
‘Mrs Nagle, eh? Might be worth payin’ ’er a visit. And d’ya ’ave
report cards sent ’ome, Charlie?’
‘We do, Mr Taylor.’
‘And what is it yer good at? Sums?’
‘Yeah, sums is me best. I’m not much good at spellin’, though.’
‘Don’t ya worry ’bout it, Charlie. I’ll fix it with Mrs Nagle… get ’er
ta bump yer grades up, while we’re at it. Just quietly, lad, I think ya’ll
find yer spellin’ is about ta improve.’
‘Really?’ I was shocked. ‘Ya mean I don’t ’ave ta go ta school no
more?’
‘That’s right, Charlie. Yer no good ta me with yer ’ead stuck in a
book all day. Right, ’ere’s the job fer ya.’