CHAPTER SEVEN
During my first week under Squizzy’s employ, I was surprised how
few errands I ran. When I did, it was mainly small stuff. Maybe he
was testing me.
I picked up creams and lotions for Dolly at Madame Ghurka’s at the
Eastern Market in Bourke Street and on one occasion Squizzy
entrusted me with a sum of money to fetch a silver brooch he’d had
engraved.
None of the errands were urgent so I was able to run at a leisurely
pace, and as I pounded the pavement I caught myself, more than
once, looking down at my shiny new boots.
In between jobs, rather than sit around lazing, I offered to wash
Squizzy’s car. I washed it so clean I could see myself in it. After he’d
inspected it, Squizzy told me that I had more initiative than most of
the men who worked for him. I liked that.
Friday afternoon came around quick. When I’d finished the day’s
work, I made my way to the laundry at the back of the house as I did
every afternoon. In a corner I found the shoebox. It nearly broke my
heart to do it but I sat down on the concrete floor, undid the laces on
my new boots and slid them off. I then replaced them with my father’s
pair. As soon as my feet were inside them, I couldn’t wait for Monday.
Back inside the house I said goodbye to Dolly then found Squizzy in
his chair behind the table.
‘Ya did well this week, Charlie,’ he said, opening a drawer beside
him. He pulled out an envelope and slid it across the table. ‘I’m
thinkin’ ya’ll be well pleased with what’s inside.’
Slowly I reached a trembling hand across the table and picked it up.
‘Thanks, Mr Taylor. When will ya be wantin’ me next?’
‘There’s somethin’ just come up, as a matter a fact. Tomorrow night.
It’s a job fer two.’
Suddenly a face flashed before my eyes. It was Nostrils.
‘I know of someone, Mr Taylor,’ I said. ‘Norman Heath. Ya might
remember ’im from race day. He was the blue runner.’
‘The lad with the big nose, was ’e?’
‘That’s ’im.’
‘Awright, Charlie. Ya bring ’im along. Be ’ere at eight o’clock.’
With my first wages in my hand I walked out the front door and
pushed through the gate. My whole body shook. For a while I could
not even look at the envelope for fear it was all a dream. Then, some
way up the street, I stopped. Carefully I tore open the flap and pulled
out a pound note. I scrunched my fingers around it tight then steadied
myself by grabbing hold of a nearby fence with my free hand.
With the rain on my face, I lifted my fist to the heavens and threw
my father a wink.
‘Giddy-up.’
Next morning, the first thing I heard was Jack. I rolled onto my side
and opened my eyes. On the mouldy wall opposite I saw a dog with
three legs. It was a small dog, a terrier like the one Mr and Mrs
Redmond owned.
For a while I did not move. I lay there thinking about the day
ahead. There was the wood run, of course, and after that, maybe a bit
of rabbiting in the afternoon. Then…
Suddenly I bolted upright in bed. I swung my legs out from under
the blankets and dived onto the floor. In seconds my hand was
jammed down the side of the box of newspapers under my bed.
The envelope!