Frantically my fingers began searching. Last night I’d thought it a
clever idea to hide the envelope in a box of papers but now I wasn’t so
sure. I panicked. Each time I thought I had it I came up with bits of
torn newsprint. Finally I found it near the bottom. I sat back against
the bed and held the pound note in my hand.
It was real. And it was mine.
Later that morning, on arriving at Stone’s Timber Yard, I found Mr
Peacock to be strangely off-hand. As always, I parked my trolley near
the foreman’s hut and poked my head inside.
‘Good mornin’, Mr Peacock,’ I chirped.
I waited for a reply but he kept his eyes on the paper in front of him
and said nothing.
‘I’ll just fetch the rake and get started then, shall I?’
‘There’s no wood fer ya today,’ he said.
‘No wood?’ I asked. ‘I think yer mistaken, Mr Peacock. I seen some
scattered about the yard on me way in.’
Suddenly, Mr Peacock looked up and spoke to me with a loud voice.
‘Did ya not ’ear me?’ he spat. ‘There’s no wood fer ya today. Go
’ome and tell yer ma. And tell ’er I’ll be callin’ tomorra.’
Slowly I backed out of the hut and started for home with an empty
trolley. I was stunned. Never before had Mr Peacock spoken to me like
that and never before had he refused me a load of wood. On the long
walk home I turned things over and over in my head. I was there
when the agreement was made, when Mr Peacock shook hands with
my father. I heard him promise. I saw him.
When I reached home I was none the wiser. Instead of leading my
trolley through the back door, I left it down the side and trudged into
the house. Ma saw me coming.
‘And ’ow’d ya get on today, Charlie?’ she asked.
‘There’s no wood today, Ma.’
‘No wood? What on earth are ya talkin’ ’bout?’
‘It’s like I said, there’s no wood. Mr Peacock told me ta tell ya. He’ll
be callin’ tomorra.’
Slowly Ma turned her face from me and found a seat at the kitchen
table. I followed until I was standing before her. She was crying.
‘What is it, Ma? What’s ’appened?’
‘It’s nothin’, Charlie.’
‘I’m sorry ’bout the wood, Ma.’
‘It’s not yer fault, luv.’
‘What’ll we do then?’
With her sleeve, she wiped away some tears. Then she smiled at me
– the saddest smile I’d ever seen.
‘Don’t ya worry,’ she said. ‘I know what ta do.’