CHAPTER EIGHT
When I called at Nostrils’ house in Mary Street that Saturday
afternoon, the two of us were fit to burst. Both of us had news.
‘Come on in, Charlie,’ he said. ‘There’s somethin’ I’ve got ta tell ya.’
I tied up the Redmond’s terrier, Clarrie, to the front fence and
followed him inside.
In the living room, his mother and father sat at the table, admiring
a freshly baked sponge cake sitting on a plate in front of them.
‘At last,’ said his father. ‘We meet the mysterious Charlie Feehan.
Ya’ll have a piece a cake with us, won’t ya, Charlie?’
‘I will, Mr Heath,’ I said. ‘Thanks.’
I took a seat next to Nostrils and before long Mrs Heath was back at
the table with another plate.
‘Go on then, Norman,’ she smiled proudly. ‘I don’t want Charlie ’ere
thinkin’ it’s every day we ’ave sponge cake. Good Lord, before long
we’ll ’ave ’alf the neighbourhood visitin’. Tell ’im before me ’eart
packs it in.’
Beside me Nostrils was playing with his fork.
‘I’ve been picked ta play with the Richmond Hill team,’ he said with
a grin. ‘They want me ta start trainin’ on Wednesday.’
My mouth opened but nothing came. It was something that seemed
to be happening a lot lately. Having seen Nostrils with a football in
his hands I had no reason to doubt him, even still, I looked around the
table for confirmation. Mr and Mrs Heath nodded excitedly.
‘Richmond Hill?’ I asked.
They nodded again.
‘Crikey!’
With our bellies full of cake, Nostrils and I set off with Clarrie for
Yarra Park. The three of us doubled back towards Cubitt Street and
where the train tracks veered into one, Clarrie flattened his ears and
began pulling on the lead.
Rabbits.
Besides Billy Morgan’s ferret, Clarrie was the best rabbiter in
Richmond. Only small in stature, he was named, fittingly, after Clarrie
Hall, the ferocious Richmond rover.
Pink noses twitched that little bit faster when Clarrie was let off the
lead. He scurried around rabbit holes, chasing down anything that
moved. At Yarra Park, when Clarrie came out to play, one thing was
for certain – you never went home empty-handed.
Soon enough Clarrie emerged from the bush with a rabbit in his
mouth. He trotted up to us then sat at our feet, panting.
‘Give it ’ere!’ I commanded.
Carefully, I took the stunned rabbit from him, wrung its neck and
threw its lifeless body to the ground. Sensing the game was over,
Clarrie licked his bloody jaw then bolted off for more.
Since I’d met with Nostrils, the talk had been mostly about football.
Now it was my turn.
‘There’s a job on tonight I’ll be needin’ a hand with,’ I said. ‘Ya
interested?’
‘Tonight?’ asked Nostrils. ‘Too right I am.’
‘Beaut. Squizzy ain’t told me much, but I reckon there’ll be a quid
or two in it fer ya. We’re on at eight o’clock.’
‘Yeah, course. Count me in.’
After a couple of hours, Clarrie’s kill count totalled five. I gave a
rabbit to Nostrils, tied the others by the legs then slung them over my
right shoulder.
‘Rabbit stew,’ I said, wiping my hands. ‘Ya don’t get much fresher
than that.’
Seeing as most nights I went out running, Ma paid little attention to
my departure from the house that night. Just before eight, I met
Nostrils at the corner of Swan and Church Streets as planned.
Despite the rain, Nostrils was all smiles.
‘Nice night fer it, eh, Charlie?’
‘Could be worse,’ I replied.
Together we walked up Church Street, our coat collars standing at
attention. Except for the company, there wasn’t much to like about
that cold and miserable night. Already my clothes were wet through.
‘Don’t s’pose the boss pays extra when it’s rainin’, does ’e?’ panted
Nostrils.