‘I dunno. Why don’t ya ask ’im and find out?’
Arriving at the Darlington Parade house, I knocked on the door and
waited. Instead of Dolly, a gent who I recognised from race day
answered. One of the sheep, I think he was.
‘Evenin’,’ I said. ‘Charlie Feehan and Norman Heath. We’re ’ere fer
Mr Taylor.’
Leaning against the doorway, the gent looked annoyed, as if we’d
interrupted something.
‘Squizzy and Dolly are attendin’ the theatre,’ he said, retreating into
the house. ‘Come through, ’e’s left yer instructions back ’ere
somewhere.’
From the table in the study, the gent picked up a piece of paper and
handed it to me. I didn’t bother showing it to Nostrils, what with his
memory the way it was. Instead I kept it to myself.
It read:
Pick up – 22 Goodwood Street, Richmond.
Drop off – 12 Erin Street, Richmond.
Satisfied he’d done his bit, the gent turned to leave.
‘Hang on a jiff,’ I protested. ‘What is it that needs ta be done?’
Again the gent looked annoyed.
‘Don’t tell me ya never run the rabbit before?’ he snapped.
‘Run the rabbit?’ asked Nostrils.
‘Flamin’ ’eck, am I gonna aft’a ’old yer ’ands? You’ll be doin’ a
liquor run. Written down’s the pick-up and the drop-off address. It’s a
piece a cake.’
Despite the explanation, Nostrils and I stood together, unmoving.
‘Is there somethin’ else, ladies?’ asked the gent.
‘Nothin’,’ I said.
‘Good. I’ll ask ya ta be off then.’
This time we led ourselves out. At the door the gent stopped me and
pulled me away from Nostrils.
‘It’s Charlie, ya said?’
‘That’s right,’ I replied.
‘Listen, lad, I’ve been around the traps fer a while. D’ya want me
advice?’
‘Sure.’
Over my shoulder the gent looked at Nostrils and broke into a
smile.
‘If the rain gets too ’eavy fer ya, why don’t ya try standin’ under ’is
nose?’
At a brisk walking pace, Nostrils and I headed for the pick-up address.
For the residents of Richmond, only one person came to mind
whenever Goodwood Street was mentioned. That person was Henry
Stokes. Stokes was a self-proclaimed Good Samaritan – a man who’s
calling in life was to serve the good people of Richmond.
The truth?
Stokes was an SP bookmaker and sly grogger who’d done so well at
his trade that he’d managed to build up a small fortune. As part of his
tireless charity work, he ran Melbourne’s biggest two-up school and
with hotels forced to close at six o’clock, Stokes supplied liquor after
hours at highly inflated prices.
It was a far cry from the softly spoken Madame Ghurka with her
creams and lotions. This was organised crime and Nostrils and I were
about to dip our toes in.
From Lennox Street we turned left into Goodwood.
‘Ya never said nothin’ about Goodwood Street,’ said Nostrils
nervously.
‘Ya never asked,’ I replied. ‘Anyway, ya never told me about
Barlow, remember? I reckon that makes us even.’
‘Cripes, Charlie. Next ya’ll be tellin’ me we’re goin’ ta Stokes’s
place.’
I tried to keep walking but Nostrils grabbed hold of my arm.
‘I hope ya know what yer doin’, Charlie?’
Pulling up, I turned and faced him.
‘Listen, Nostrils, we’re workin’ fer Squizzy Taylor. Did ya think we’d
be pickin’ up liquor from an old boiler in slippers?’
‘We’re talkin’ ’bout Henry Stokes, Charlie.’
‘Don’t worry, Nostrils. All we gotta do is pick it up and deliver it.
We’ll be done in ’alf an ’our.’
After a bit of lip biting, Nostrils relented.
‘Awright, let’s get it over with.’
From my nightly runs along Goodwood Street I’d learnt that the
entrance to the two-up school was down the side of the house.
Nostrils followed closely behind until we were positioned in front of a
heavy wooden door.
‘Ya ready?’ I asked.
Nostrils nodded.