I cannot say that I wasn’t nervous, but for me there was something
far more powerful at work. I was excited. I didn’t want what other
people wanted. I didn’t want to be like Nostrils, sticking labels on tins
of jam at Rosella’s, or like my father who busted his gut down on the
wharf for years. I wanted something more than that. I wanted a piece
of the action. It didn’t have to be a huge helping, just a slice of it.
Enough to give Ma and Jack a better life.
I knocked.
In the door just above our heads a latch opened. Two eyes spoke to
us.
‘What?’
I lifted myself onto my toes and shouted.
‘Mr Taylor ’as sent us. We’re ’ere fer the liquor run.’
Behind the door a lock clicked open and in an instant a beefy
bouncer appeared before me.
‘Jaysus, lad, why don’t ya tell the whole bloody neighbourhood?’
Straight away I picked him for a boxer. He had no neck to speak of
and his flattened nose suggested he’d copped more than his fair share
of punishment in the ring. At the very least I was expecting a clip
across the ear, but when he caught sight of Nostrils something in the
tough man seemed to soften. I stepped aside and saw that the two of
them were locked in a gaze, smiling. I think it was a nose thing.
‘Sorry ’bout the din,’ said Nostrils. ‘Would ya be so kind as ta tell us
where it is we pick up the grog?’
Hearing Nostrils speak, the bouncer relaxed and dropped his
shoulders. Blow me down! He did have a neck – a good half-inch at
least.
‘Round the back, lads,’ he said. ‘There’s a bell at the side of the
door. Ask fer Jenkins – Oh, and keep it down, will ya?’
This time it was me who followed Nostrils. I drew next to him and
punched him playfully on the arm.
‘Nice work, Nostrils. Yer a natural at this caper.’
At the rear door Nostrils stepped forward and gave the bell a ring.
Not long after, an older man with a standard-type nose appeared in
the doorway.
‘Jenkins?’ asked Nostrils.
‘That’s me.’
‘We’re Squizzy Taylor’s lads, sent fer the liquor.’
‘Come through, lads, I’ve been expectin’ ya.’
We followed Jenkins through the doorway and into a room packed
with liquor. At a desk off to the right he shuffled through a pile of
papers.
‘’Ere it is,’ he said. ‘Let’s see… two whisky, one gin and a ’alf dozen
bottles a beer. Must be some shindig.’
Carefully Jenkins loaded the beer into an old cement bag then
fetched the whisky and gin.
‘Is it far yer’ve gotta go?’ he asked.
‘Not far,’ I replied, ‘it’s only up ta Erin Street.’
Jenkins nodded.
‘Yis can work it out between yerselves who takes what, but I
suggest one of ya stick these two in yer coat pocket and the other
carries the beer.’
Nostrils took the whisky and gin, leaving me the beer. Not wanting
to cause a scene, I carefully twisted the top of the bag and lifted it off
the ground.
‘Don’t just stand there, Nostrils,’ I heaved. ‘Give us a hand, will ya?’
Stepping outside, my legs reacted quickly to the weight over my
shoulder. With Nostrils at my side we plodded up Goodwood Street
then turned left into Lennox. It was time to have words with Nostrils.
‘I ’ope yer not forgettin’ who the apprentice is ’ere?’ I said. ‘If yer
attitude don’t improve, I’ll be dockin’ yer pay.’
At Bridge Road, with only a few streets left to travel, Nostrils
offered to take a turn lugging the bottles. Maybe if he’d made the
suggestion earlier I would have been more impressed. Even still, I was
glad for the spell.