We continued up Lennox Street then turned left into Erin, looking
for the drop-off address.
Six… eight… ten… twelve.
Standing outside number twelve, Nostrils lowered the bottles to the
ground and grimaced as he grabbed at his lower back.
‘Struth.’
He was taking the piss, surely.
‘I ’ope yer not overdoin’ it, Nostrils,’ I said. ‘Is there anythin’ I can
get yer? A cup a tea, maybe?’
‘I’ll be right, thanks, Charlie, just give us a minute.’
Standing in front of the pretty white terrace house, I spotted
movement out of the corner of my eye. I swung my head left and saw
a copper waltzing up the street towards us.
‘Quick, Nostrils, we got company.’
In a flash, I grabbed the bottles and stepped over the low fence in
front of me. Across the lawn, I headed to a thick bush and ducked in
behind it. Luckily, Nostrils came with me. As soon as I sat, I knew it
was a bad move. Directly above us was a window and inside a light
burned so bright, it had the two of us lit up like a nativity scene.
There was no time to move, so we dropped close to the ground, our
heads only inches apart. Lying low, I leaned forward and found one of
Nostrils’ ears.
‘Yer makin’ one ’ell of a racket,’ I whispered.
‘Sorry, but me nose is blocked.’
‘Why don’t ya try breathin’ through yer mouth, then?’
Between the branches the copper appeared at the front fence. He
stopped and let his eyes wander around the front garden. For sure, we
were gone. He seemed to be looking directly at us but showed no sign
of having seen us. Then, slowly, he began to move off. Just to be sure
I waited a few minutes then signalled to Nostrils I was going to check
the street. At the front fence I looked left then right. It was all clear.
Quickly Nostrils and I picked up the bottles and knocked on the
front door.
A well-dressed gent with a neat moustache answered.
‘We’re ’ere with yer liquor, sir.’
‘Crikey lads, you’re covered in leaves,’ said the gent. ‘What ’ave you
been up to?’
‘We was nearly sprung by a copper out front,’ I explained.
‘Is that so?’ he smiled. ‘You needn’t have been bothered with ’im,
lads. He’s one of mine.’
I snuck a look at Nostrils and panicked.
‘Ya mean yer a copper yerself?’
‘I was a long time ago. I’ve been promoted since. Inspector, I am
now. Did you bring the whisky and gin with you?’
‘We did, sir.’
I took the bottles from my coat pockets and handed them over.
Before picking up the cement bag, the Inspector found a shilling coin
and flicked it to me.
‘Good work, lads,’ he said, backing away from the door. ‘Oh, and
give my regards to Squizzy, would you.’
Smiling, Nostrils and I walked out along the path and found the
copper waiting for us at the front gate. Up close he looked none too
pleased to be out in the rain.
‘Nice night fer it, constable,’ said Nostrils.
‘Ain’t nothin’ nice about it. What’s yer caper, you two?’
‘We’re just visitin’,’ I explained. ‘Business.’
‘Business?’
Slowly the penny dropped and the copper realised the reason for
our visit. I stood next to Nostrils, smiling confidently, almost daring
the copper to take it further.
Never before would I have had the nerve, but as he looked into my
eyes I held his gaze and it was then that I realised what it was I loved
about working for Squizzy Taylor. It was more than just the money. It
was the power I loved as well.