CHAPTER NINE
Sunday morning I saw a strange woman in the mould on my bedroom
wall. She had no face to speak of so I made her Mrs Nagle.
Suddenly she came to life.
‘Long division, Charlie Feehan. Open your book at page twelve.’
Crikey! She was giving me sums!
After that, a succession of women appeared – Mrs Hargraves at
number seven, Madame Ghurka, Nostril’s mum… none of them in the
least bit happy to be up there. The faces continued changing, faster
and faster then stopped with just one face.
It was Dolly – Squizzy’s Dolly.
‘Get outta bed, ya lazy bugger,’ she said.
Then she was gone.
Reluctantly, I dragged myself from my warm bed and scooted up the
hall. I found Ma sitting on a kitchen chair feeding Jack with a blanket
wrapped around her shoulders. I’d slept in.
‘How is ’e this mornin’, Ma?’ I asked.
‘He’s freezin’ cold, Charlie, how d’ya expect ’e is?’
The icy reception shocked me. In all the times we’d gone without
wood I’d never known Ma to raise her voice at me.
‘Are ya awright, Ma?’
She looked up and gave me that sad smile.
‘I’m sorry, Charlie,’ she said softly. ‘I didn’t mean ta snap. I’m not
feelin’ meself, today.’
‘Shall I call next door and see if the Redmonds can spare some
wood?’
‘No. We can’t keep scroungin’ off the neighbours, Charlie. It ain’t
right.’
‘But Jack, ’e’s freezin’ cold, ya said?’
‘Charlie, will ya stop!’ She was screaming now. ‘I don’t need ya
remindin’ me ’e’s cold. Fer God’s sake, will ya get outta me ’air.’
Ever since Mr Peacock’s visit to our house last Sunday, I’d noticed a
change in my mother’s mood. Something was troubling her, I could
sense it.
This time, the tone in her voice stung me. I’d never seen her so
wild. Wounded, I took off down the hall, pushed through the front
door and ran.
It didn’t matter where. All I wanted was to get away. Street after
street, I kept running, driving her words from my head. After a good
hour, I limped back up Cubitt Street, exhausted, until I was outside
our house again. Next door, Mr Redmond waved.
‘Struth, Charlie, ya look like ya run all the way ta Sydney and back.
Ya wanna catch the train next time. Tell me, was it rainin’ up there?’
‘Not a drop, Mr Redmond,’ I said. ‘In fact, it was so warm, I could a
stopped fer a swim.’
I stepped onto our porch and quietly opened the door, just in case
Ma was napping in her bed. Once inside I breathed a familiar scent –
a sickly perfume smell it was. Slowly I made my way down the hall
and stopped in the kitchen door. At first I thought the room was
empty but then I saw them up against the sink. Mr Peacock had his
mouth on Ma’s neck, moaning. I ducked in behind the door and
watched as Ma let my father’s friend kiss her. Then I realised
something – the moaning sound I had heard wasn’t Mr Peacock at all.
It was my ma, crying.
I could not bear to look. The very sight of them made my stomach
churn. I turned my head and quietly headed to my room. At first I
thought about running again, losing myself in the streets, but I hadn’t
the strength. Instead, I slipped under the blankets and folded the
pillow tight around my ears.
That night I turned sixteen years old.
On Monday morning I could not bring myself to look at Ma. Sitting
at the table, I felt uneasy. When I was forced to speak to her, I focused
my eyes on Jack. One time, as I reached for the jam, she touched my
arm and I jumped clean out of my chair.
Not yet three months, my father had been gone – three lousy
months.