She had no right to be wearing his ring any more. I was ashamed.
Without so much as a goodbye, I rose from my chair and left the
house.
I needed air.
Trudging up Cubitt Street, however, did nothing to lift my spirits.
My father used to say that if you wanted to know about a place, all
you had to do was walk down its streets. He was right.
The streets of Richmond were like the pages in a book. They told a
story.
It was no fairytale with feel good middles and happy endings. This
story was full of hardship. Hand to mouth and day to day, that’s how
it was.
For those outsiders game enough to heed my father’s advice, the
first thing they noticed was the air. Industry boomed in Richmond.
There were the tanneries, the breweries, the boiling-down works, the
cork factory, the jam factory and the tip. When the wind was blowing
right, that lot got together and let loose with the foulest concoction of
fumes you could ever imagine. Nostrils, with his keen nose, reckoned
that on one particular day he detected seventeen different stenches in
the air. And in all seriousness, I had no reason to doubt him.
Besides the factories, we also had the fisho’s and the rabbito’s who
cleaned their wares on carts then tossed the bloody remains into the
gutters for the cats and dogs. These were the same gutters that
children played in – a playground full of blood and guts, of horse
manure, empty tins and rats.
∗
Over the next couple of weeks I threw myself into my work with such
enthusiasm that Squizzy ran out of jobs for me. No matter what the
job or how trivial it seemed, I ran every errand as if my life depended
on it. Running was all I had now. At least no one could spoil that.
Running belonged to me.
I ran during the day and I ran at night. In fact I ran so much that I
didn’t bother changing into my father’s old boots any more. Ma and I
both had our secrets now. At home I felt more like a tenant than a
son. I avoided her as best I could, preferring to spend my time with
Nostrils or Squizzy or Dolly. At least with them I didn’t have to
pretend.
One evening I returned home from a run, covered in sweat and
feeling strong. I slipped through the front door and heard raised
voices towards the back of the house. Jack was at it, too. Quickly I
marched down the hall and found Mr Peacock slurring foul-mouthed
obscenities at Ma who he had trapped against the sideboard. Bits of
shattered glass lay scattered across the kitchen floor. I smelt whisky.
‘What the flamin’ ’eck’s goin’ on?’ I roared.
Hearing my voice, Ma stepped to the side with her arms up high
protecting her face.
‘Charlie!’
When she tried to move past him it was then that I saw what he’d
done. He’d taken to her with his fists. Her lip was split open and one
of her eyes was swollen the size of a cricket ball.
Mr Peacock turned and saw me coming.
‘Back off, lad,’ he spat. ‘It don’t concern ya.’
As I rushed forward, he jumped before me and hit me on the jaw
with a right hook that sat me on the floor. Ma screamed. Full of rage I
lifted myself up and hurtled off down the hall to my bedroom. Under
the bed, I found my cricket bat next to the box of papers and dragged
it out. I was wild.
The voices seemed to be getting louder so I ran back down the hall
towards them. Halfway down, I could see him laying into her. I
charged. At the doorway I decided against playing Mr Peacock with a
straight bat. I stormed into the kitchen and raised the willow, crossbat style. I was nearly there when Mr Peacock turned. He saw me all
right. But he was too slow. I gripped the handle tight, cocked it over
my shoulder and brought the edge of the bat down hard across his
skull. Crack!