Almost immediately his lights went out and his limp body dropped
to the ground. Standing above him I suddenly felt quite calm. Already
a small trail of blood was snaking its way down onto his face. I
watched it pool in his eye socket then continue its journey over the
bridge of his nose, finally dripping into a puddle of whisky on the
floor.
‘Holy Saint Francis,’ breathed Ma. ‘What ’ave ya done, Charlie?’
To be honest I didn’t know.
For a few moments, Ma and I stood there looking at his lifeless
body, waiting for it to move. It didn’t, so I gave his ribs a gentle
nudge with the bat.
‘Is ’e dead?’ I asked.
‘Good Lord, Charlie, ’ow should I know? Is it a doctor ya think I
am? Come and ’elp me with some towels.’
Soon Ma and I were bent down wrapping towels around Mr
Peacock’s bloody skull.
‘He don’t look well, Ma,’ I said. ‘Is ’e still breathin’?’
Before she had time to answer, Mr Peacock moved his arm.
‘Quickly, Charlie, go and fetch Mr Redmond from next door.’
‘But…’
‘Go Charlie! And take yerself off fer a while.’
Halfway up Cubitt Street, after visiting the Redmonds, I turned and
saw Mr Redmond darting through our front gate in his dressing gown,
and for the first time I understood the trouble I was in. It had never
occurred to me, as I charged down the hallway, to aim for Mr
Peacock’s legs. I’d wanted to hurt him. After all, a man with a belly
full of liquor never gives you a second chance. You were best to drop
him with your first shot.
But now, without my hackles up, I realised I’d gone too far. So
instead of heading to Nostrils’ house in Mary Street, as was my
original plan, I ducked up Church Street and headed to Darlington
Parade.
When I arrived at Squizzy’s door the panic had a hold of me so bad
I could barely raise my hand up to knock. I leaned my forehead on the
wooden door and kicked at its base with my boot.
The outside light clicked on and soon Squizzy appeared at the door,
dressed in blue and white jockey’s silks with a riding whip in his
hand.
‘Bloody ’ell, lad,’ he scolded. ‘What kind a hour d’ya call this? I’m
’avin’ me portrait painted.’
‘I’m sorry ta inconvenience ya, Mr Taylor, but I think I’m in strife.’
Behind him Dolly appeared with a paintbrush in her hand.
She seemed pleased to see me.
‘Charlie,’ she shrieked. ‘Come inside at once!’
Pushing past Squizzy, she gave his backside a crack with the
paintbrush then took my arm and led me inside.
‘Hang about, Doll,’ he protested. ‘What about the paintin’?’
Inside, the living room was set up like a racetrack, with a finishing
post and all. Dolly gasped as I sat down next to her on the divan.
‘Flamin’ ’eck, Charlie. There’s blood on yer shirt… Look ’ere Squiz,
there’s blood on Charlie’s shirt.’
Squizzy appeared with a glass of beer in his hand.
‘What’ve ya been up ta, lad?’ he smiled.
His casual demeanour suggested he was no stranger to the claret.
‘I clobbered a bloke with me cricket bat,’ I explained.
‘What, were ’e droppin’ ’em in short, were ’e? Yer’ve every right if
’e were bowlin’ bouncers at yer.’
‘It were a man,’ I continued. ‘He was layin’ inta me ma.’
Beside me, Dolly reached for my hand.
‘I’ve left ’im lyin’ on the kitchen floor. There’s blood comin’ from ’is
’ead.’
Squizzy rubbed his chin, deep in thought.
‘Christ, Charlie, is there no end ta yer talents? Yer a fightin’ man as
well.’