‘Squizzy!’
‘Awright, Doll, settle down.’
Scolded, Squizzy sat in a chair opposite me and rested his beer on a
nearby table.
‘Let’s ’ear it then, Charlie.’
With Dolly at my side, I told Squizzy all about the evening’s events.
I told him about Mr Peacock and how he was once one of my father’s
closest friends and I told him what he’d done to Ma.
Squizzy sat there listening, silently sipping his beer until I was
finished.
‘So this Redmond fella, a neighbour ya say, ya left ’im with yer ma?’
I nodded.
‘And the bloke ya clobbered… Ya saw ’im move ’is arm?’
‘Yes.’
Squizzy took a deep breath then lifted himself out of the chair.
‘I’ll send someone over ta sit out the front… low key… just in case
this Peacock tosser wants ta go another round or two. In the
meantime, Charlie, I want ya ta tell me everythin’ ya know about ’im.’
When I woke the next morning, I found myself trackside on
Squizzy’s divan. It felt late.
I lay there a while, listening to the rain crashing onto the tin roof
until someone stirred behind me.
‘I see that sleepin’s another one a yer talents,’ chirped Squizzy.
‘I’m sorry ta be such a bother, Mr Taylor. I dunno how ta thank ya
fer what ya done fer me.’
‘It’s not me ya should be thankin’, Charlie. It’s Dolly. She’s taken a
real shine ta ya.’
I looked around the room, expecting her to be there.
‘She’s nicked out fer a bit,’ he explained.
‘Oh… would ya mind me askin’ ’ow it went last night, then?’
‘Me man picked up yer Mr Peacock on ’is way ta see the coppers.
He was all about pressin’ charges.’
‘Charges?’
‘Don’t worry, I paid ’im a visit this mornin’ at the timber yard. Had
a nice little chat, we did. Put the fear a God up ’im. I think ya’ll find
that yer Mr Peacock’s sufferin’ from amnesia. Can’t remember a
bloody thing.’
‘Ya mean I’m in the clear?’ I asked.
‘That ya are, Charlie. And ’e’s ’ad a change a mind ’bout the wood
as well. He’ll be doin’ ’is own rakin’ from now on. Sat’d’y mornin’s ya
can ’elp yerself.’
Right then, Squizzy reminded me of my father. Not in looks so
much. It was more in the way he was able to make things right. I
went to hug him but he stopped me.
‘Like I said, Charlie, it’s Dolly ya should be thankin’. I suggest ya go
’ome and see yer ma.’
When I arrived home, the kitchen floor had been wiped clean. Ma was
standing at the sink with her back to me, feeding Jack something Mrs
Redmond had brought in. I stood in the doorway, just as I had the
night before. It felt strange being back there. It was so peaceful now.
I called out to Ma but she didn’t respond. Slowly I made my way to
the sink but she turned her face away as if to hide.
‘Ma,’ I said softly.
Reluctantly, she swung my way and it was then that I saw her
battered face. I was shocked. I took a step back and stood there
looking, searching for my ma in the savaged face in front of me.
I could not believe that the woman standing before me was the
same one who’d brought me into this world – the one who’d cared for
me all these years. It wasn’t possible.
But then, through swollen lips, I heard her whisper my name.
‘Charlie.’
Stepping forward, she drew me in with her free arm and I went to
her.
‘I’m sorry, Charlie,’ she whispered again.
‘It’s awright, Ma… Everythin’s awright.’
She was shaking, so I nestled into her and we stayed like that, the
three of us, locked together for what seemed like forever.